Health centers get grants
HelpingYouCare™Helping You Care for SeniorLoved Ones and for Yourself
The U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) today announced the awarding of grants totaling $728 million to Community Health Centers nationwide under President Obama’s Health Care Law, the Patient Protection & Affordable Care Act (“Affordable Care Act”).
The funding will go to support 398 renovation and construction projects nationwide, boosting health centers’ ability to care for additional patients and creating jobs. This expansion of Community Health Center services is expected to provide access to health care to an additional 860,000 patients.
“The awards are part of a series of capital investments that are made available to community health centers under the Affordable Care Act, which provides $9.5 billion to expand services over five years and $1.5 billion to support major construction and renovation projects at community health centers,” HHS said in apress releaseissued today.
Health and Human Services (HHS) Secretary Kathleen Sebelius announced the awards in a visit to Fairmount Primary Care Center in Philadelphia today.
“President Obama’s health care law is making our community health centers stronger,” Secretary Sebelius said.  “For many Americans, community health centers are the major source of care that ranges from prevention to treatment of chronic diseases. This investment will expand our ability to provide high-quality care to millions of people while supporting good paying jobs in communities across the country.”
Health centers improve the health of the nation’s underserved communities by ensuring access to primary health care services. Currently, more than 8,500 Community Heath Center sites around the country deliver care to more than 20 million patients regardless of their ability to pay.
According to a new report released by HHS today, the Health Care Law has supported 190 construction and renovation projects at Community Health Centers and the creation of 67 new Community Health Center sites across the country.  In addition, it will support more than 485 new Community Health Center construction and renovation projects and the creation of 245 new Community Health Center sites over the next two years.
“Since the beginning of 2009, employment at Community Health Centers nationwide has increased by 15 percent,” HHS said in its news release today.
“Through the Affordable Care Act and the Recovery Act, community health centers are serving nearly 3 million additional patients today and will serve an additional 1.3 million additional new patients in the next two years,” HHS said.
A List of the Capital Development – Building Capacity Program awards announced today, by state, can be found athttp://www.hrsa.gov/about/news/2012tables/120501healthcentercapital.html.
A List of the Capital Development – Immediate Facility Improvement Program awards announced today, by state, can be found athttp://www.hrsa.gov/about/news/2012tables/120501facilityimprovement.html.
For more information on the Community Health Center Program, which is operated by the Health Resources and Services Administration (HRSA) under HHS, seethe HRSA’s website.
To find a Community Health Center in your area, visithttp://findahealthcenter.hrsa.gov.
Following is the HHS news release issued today:
Grants from the Affordable Care Act will help  build and expand health centers, create jobs, and expand access to an  additional 860,000 patients
Philadelphia, PA – In a visit to  Fairmount Primary Care Center today, Health and Human Services (HHS)  Secretary Kathleen Sebelius announced awards made possible by the new  health care law that will help build, expand and improve community  health centers nationwide.
Funding of more than $728 million will  support 398 renovation and construction projects, boosting health  centers’ ability to care for additional patients and creating jobs.  The  awards are part of a series of capital investments that are made  available to community health centers under the Affordable Care Act,  which provides $9.5 billion to expand services over five years and $1.5  billion to support major construction and renovation projects at  community health centers.
According to a new report released  today, the health care law has supported 190 construction and renovation  projects at health centers and the creation of 67 new health center  sites across the country, and will support more than 485 new health  center construction and renovation projects and the creation of 245 new  community health center sites over the next two years.
Overall,  since the beginning of 2009, employment at community health centers  nationwide has increased by 15 percent.  And, through the Affordable  Care Act and the Recovery Act, community health centers are serving  nearly 3 million additional patients today and will serve an additional  1.3 million additional new patients in the next two years.
The  announcement made today is for awards from two capital programs for  community health centers. One will provide approximately $629 million to  171 existing health centers across the country for longer-term projects  to expand their facilities, improve existing services, and serve more  patients. This program will expand access to an additional 860,000  patients. The second set of awards will provide approximately $99.3  million to 227 existing health centers to address pressing facility and  equipment needs.
“President Obama’s health care law is making our  community health centers stronger,” said Secretary Sebelius. “For many  Americans, community health centers are the major source of care that  ranges from prevention to treatment of chronic diseases. This investment  will expand our ability to provide high-quality care to millions of  people while supporting good paying jobs in communities across the  country.”
Health centers improve the health of the nation’s  underserved communities by ensuring access to primary health care  services. Currently, more than 8,500 service delivery sites around the  country deliver care to more than 20 million patients regardless of  their ability to pay.
A List of Capital Development – Building Capacity Program awards by state can be found athttp://www.hrsa.gov/about/news/2012tables/120501healthcentercapital.html.
A List of Capital Development – Immediate Facility Improvement Program awards by state can be found athttp://www.hrsa.gov/about/news/2012tables/120501facilityimprovement.html.
Information on the Affordable Care Act is available atwww.healthcare.gov.
For more information on HRSA’s community health center program, visithttp://bphc.hrsa.gov/. To find a health center in your area, visithttp://findahealthcenter.hrsa.gov.
See relatedHelpingYouCare™reports on:
HHS Announces 3 New Home & Community-Based Care Options under Affordable Care Act
HHS Announces New Administration on Community Living to Help Seniors & Disabled Live At Home
Medicare to Provide Expanded Primary Care At Home for Seniors under New Affordable Care Act Initiative
Affordable Care Act to Fund Improvement of Care for Medicare Patients in 500 Community Health Centers
National Community Health Centers Provide Primary & Preventive Care to 20 Million
Information on the Affordable Care Act is available atwww.healthcare.gov.
For more information on the Affordable Care Act and health care reform and policy, see theHelpingYouCare™resource pages onVoicesForCare™, including:
_____________
Copyright © 2012 Care-Help LLC, publisher ofHelpingYouCare™. All rights reserved.
NOTICE:If you are reading this article on any website other thanHelpingYouCare.com,please clickHEREto go to the original article. No website other thanHelpingYouCare™has been given permission to publish this article.
PleaseRegister/ Loginto post a comment. It is easy.
.............................................................................Back to Top...
Username:
Password:
Remember me

May 1, 2012
May 1, 2012
April 30, 2012
April 29, 2012
April 28, 2012
April 27, 2012
April 26, 2012
April 25, 2012
April 24, 2012
April 23, 2012
April 22, 2012
April 21, 2012
April 20, 2012
April 19, 2012
April 18, 2012
» Latest Caregiver News & Events
Participate in a briefSurvey/ Opinion Poll »
We publish the results of our periodic Surveys & Opinion Polls, anonymously.  SeeSurvey/ Opinion Poll Results ».
Write and contribute articles, posts, or other content to this Site, or share links to useful information & resources you have found with the HelpingYouCare™ Community.Read How…
Report Broken Links



Stories of Inspiring Seniors
Lillian Field Berkowitz, Acrobatic Dancer, at Age 102
Arthur Winston,Age 100, Employee of the Century
Dr. Walter Watson,Still Seeing Patientsat Age 100
Veatrice Henson, Still Volunteering to Help Others at Age 99
See More Stories of Inspiring Seniors »
This site is maintained as a community service.  Support our efforts by becoming a Sponsor of this Site.
This site is maintained as a community service by Care-Help LLC, a Fourth Sector/ Social Enterprise company, that uses advertising revenues to maintain HelpingYouCare™ (.com and .org) for the benefit of the caregiving community.Read moreAbout HelpingYouCare™...
Advertise with us/ Sponsor this Site.
Contribute at PayPal, whatever you can, to help support this site:
Your support is much appreciated and used only to maintain this site.  We are a "Fourth Sector/ Social Enterprise" company, a limited profit company that exists for the benefit of our readers and community.Read more...»
Care-Help LLC, publisher of HelpingYouCare™, is not a 501(c)(3) charity.  Therefore, contributions arenot tax-deductible.
Write and contribute articles, posts or other content for publication on this Site.  Propose to write a column for the site.  Or share with the HelpingYouCare™ Community any useful information & resources you have found .
Read How…

Home|About Us|Contact|Archives|Surveys|Subscribe|Contribute Substantive Content|Advertise|Legal Terms|Site At a Glance|Log in
The Contents on this Site do not constitute medical, legal, financial or other professional advice, and may not be relied upon as such.   HelpingYouCare.com and its owner, Care-Help LLC, do not endorse or recommend and are not responsible for the information on other websites to which we may link, or for any content posted or linked on this site.
By accessing this website, you agree to theLegal Termsfor this site.
Copyright © 2010 - 2012 Care-Help LLC - All Rights Reserved
