Study on diabetes in kids shows 'frightening' results
Phyllis Nawrot has lived with cystic breast disease since she was 24.
'I had been fighting this fight with the breast cancer, could it be, could it not be and finally this time I just had a gut reaction it really was going to be," she says.
She was diagnosed with breast cancer.
Phyllis says, "I just decided at that moment that I was going to have to do what I could do to help the doctors and the medicine fix my body."
After a lumpectomy, Phyllis and her doctor had to decide the next course of treatment.
Whole breast irradiation or brachytherapy.
Dr. Benjamin Smith with the University of Texas says, "Brachytherapy involves placing a radiation pellet or seed in the breast after lumpectomy to treat any hidden cancer that could be in the breast after surgery."
The treatment affects less breast tissue and also requires a shorter course of treatment. Treating the whole breast involves using an external radiation beam and daily treatments for up to 7 weeks.
"There's one beam coming from this direction and one beam coming from this direction."
Dr. Benjamin Smith from the University of Texas M.D. Anderson cancer center and co–authors studied Medicare claims of more than 92 thousand women diagnosed with breast cancer between 2003 and 2007.
Almost seven thousand were treated with brachytherapy and more than 85 thousand with whole breast irradiation.
Dr. Smith says, "Women treated with brachytherapy had approximately twice the risk of losing their breast within five years of diagnosis compared to women treated with whole breast irradiation."
The study appears in this week's JAMA, Journal Of The American Medical Association.
Dr. Smith says, "Women had a higher likelihood of getting a breast infection after treatment and were also more likely to have other complications associated with their surgeries such as bleeding or wound breakdown or a fluid collection develop in their breast."
Phyllis opted for whole breast irradiation and recently completed treatment.
Dr. Smith says, 'Some of the tradeoffs between brachytherapy and whole breast irradiation may be a little bit more complex than were previously appreciated and it's important for women to know these potential limitations when they're choosing the best treatment for them."
Phyllis is now looking forward to helping other women going through cancer treatment and even grandchildren one day.
