Sleep curbs influence of obesity genes
Avik Roy, Contributor
The Apothecary is a blog about health-care and entitlement reform.
+ Follow on Forbes
donotpaginate
US House Ways and Means Committee Chairman Dave Camp, R-MI, listens as the Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction begins a full committee hearing on considering the rules and organizing the committee on Capitol Hill in Washington, DC, September 8, 2011. (Image credit: AFP/Getty Images via @daylife)
The House Ways and Means Committee has released anew reportthat sheds light onto how Obamacare incentivizes companies to dump their workers onto the new law’s subsidized exchanges. As I have written many times, there arefiscal reasonsto be concerned about this problem. But employer-sponsored health insurance is one of the most problematic features of the U.S. health-care system, and Republicans who lash themselves to the employer-sponsored mast, for short-term political gain, will undermine long-term efforts at market-oriented reform.
The Ways and Means report, prepared for chairman Dave Camp (R., Mich.), surveyed companies in theFortune 100, receiving 71 timely responses. The survey asked Fortune 100 CEOs how many full-time and part-time employees they had, and how much they spend on health insurance for those workers, among other questions. Based on this data, the Ways and Means staff calculated that these 71 companies could save $28.6 billion in 2014, and $422.4 billion between 2014 and 2023, if they paid Obamacare’s fines and dumped all of their workers onto the subsidized exchanges.
In addition, the survey found that 84 percent of respondents believe that “future health costs will increase at rates that are greater than those they’ve experienced over the past five years.” They expect insurance costs to grow at 7.6 percent, on average, over the next five years, compared to 5.9 percent for the previous period.
The data is interesting, and a useful contribution to the health-care debate. But there’s one thing. Conservatives have long believed that a critical aspect of health-care reform is transitioning the insurance market away from employer-sponsored insurance toward an individual market. This, indeed, is whatGeorge W. Bush sought to doby equalizing the tax treatment of employer-sponsored and individually-purchased insurance.
Are Republican critics hypocrites?
Liberals are already salivating at the opportunity to call attention to Republicans who lambast Obamacare’s changes to the employer-sponsored insurance market, while supporting their own reforms of that system.
AsNoam Levey writesin theLos Angeles Times, Mitt Romney “has embraced a strategy that in crucial ways is more revolutionary—and potentially more disruptive—than the law Obama signed two years ago. The centerpiece of Romney’s plan would overhaul the way most Americans get their health coverage: at work. He would do so by giving Americans a tax break to buy their own health plans. That would give consumers more choices, but also more risk.”
Jonathan Cohnfollows Levey’s thought to fruition, contrasting Obamacare’s effort to “slowly [reduce] the employer health benefit tax break while simultaneously creating insurance exchanges with subsidies” to a presumably more disruptive Republican plan:
Levey’s article, by the way, makes one other critical and under-appreciated point. Republicans frequently complain that, because of the Affordable Care Act, some people with job-based insurance might lose it, despite President Obama’s promise that people with coverage will be able to keep it. That’s true. But, by transforming the tax treatment of health insurance without accompanying reforms of the insurance market, Romney’s proposal is “potentially more disruptive” and would leave even fewer people with job-based coverage.
In a world that demanded honest argument, Romney and his allies would have to acknowledge that fact. I’m not holding my breath.
Reducing consumer choice (Obamacare) vs. increasing it
There is a big substantive difference between the Obamacare approach and the free-market approach, when it comes to reform of the employer-sponsored system. Obamacarereducesconsumer choice, by steering more and more Americans into Medicaid and the highly regulated exchanges, in which beneficiaries would have to choose between avery limited range of costly, government-designed insurance plans.
Free-market reforms, on the other hand, wouldincreaseconsumer choice, by giving workers control over their own health dollars. Under a free-market system, workers could stay with their employer’s plans, or buy insurance on their own that better suits their needs. For example, young, healthy workers could take dollars out of their company’s expensive plan and steer them towards high-deductible insurance combined with a health savings account.
In addition, President Obama repeatedly promised that “if you like your plan, you can keep it,” a promise that his signature health law clearly shatters. It’s fair for Republicans to point that out.
The Ways and Means report properly calls attention to the ways in which Obamacare will drive premiums upward, which is a big driver of employers’ desire to dump health coverage. The ideal Republican solution will drive costs downward, thereby leading to less employer dumping, even if the tax treatment of health insurance is equalized.
Republicans want to be running Congress and the White House in January 2013. It’s important that, as they launch their legitimate critiques against Obamacare, they do so with an eye to governing, and not just campaigning.
Follow Avik on Twitter at@aviksaroy.

Forbes writers have the ability to call out member comments they find particularly interesting. Called-out comments are highlighted across the Forbes network. You'll be notified if your comment is called out.
Two observations:  the Fortune 100 perception is that costs/rates will increase higher than current trend, but what is that perception based on?  I’m seeing single digit rate increases for the first time in years, and, I noticed that the Massachusetts plan is having more moderate increases.  I think things are trending downward.  Between HDHP proliferation and more scrutiny on insurance carrier rate increases (ala MLR), the private market seems to be performing better.  Secondly, employees will eventually NOT have their choice between employer and individual plans.  Once carriers see employee participation fall below 75%, they’ll cancel the group plans b/c of adverse selection.  Its only a matter of time before the group market disappears.
Yes, it is interesting given that ERISA firms are effectively exempted from Obamacare.  The report doesn’t contain any qualitative descriptions from the respondents.
But wait a minute!  Our “dear leader” repeatedly told us that if we liked our health     insurance, we could keep it.   Are you telling me he lied?
The high cost of health insurance is the major cause of rising health costs.  Ask any doctor, nurse, or other practitioner and they will tell you that they employ three to four people per doctor, nurse, or other practitioner just to decipher the messes caused by the parasitical enterprises such as Aetna, Humana, Blue Cross, etc.  There are hundreds of these ‘free enterprises’ that add to the cost of administering health care.  If each state administered an insurance program for health care the present cost of administering health care would drop by 50%.  Unfortunately many, many, many administrators would lose their jobs, including the millionaires who lobby Washington against this move which would reduce the costs of health care for the citizen as well as labor costs, therefore giving citizens more spending money as well as making American goods more competitive.  This is what the rest of the world does.  This is unAmerican I suppose, socialist.
Are we that stupid to allow the oligarchies to rule us through their pay offs to our elected representatives?  I suppose so.  Forty years ago I would be labeled a communist.  Now I’m merely a socialist.  Perhaps in a lifetime or so, I will be along with those others have evolved into a pragmatist.  It is common sense that the more that pay into an insurance plan, the cheaper the dues.  The fewer insurance plans, the cheaper the cost.  For those who still fear a commie takeover, take a look at:  Canada, Great Britain, France, Germany, etc, etc.  A dual tier system where basic coverage is administered by the state, province, or country, with an optional enhancement policy has proven to cost many times less than the system we have here in the US.
What is so wrong with learning from others?
@KMHDESIGN, your excellent summary suggests a way to end unemployment in the U.S.
The key concept is “single-employer” i.e., a universal employment system.
At present, this does not exist in the U.S.  Instead, we have tens of thousands of separate employers, each with its own employment practices, payrolls, and business activities. For example, every grocery store has its own staff, stocking, pricing, and purchasing arrangements. This is why the separate-grocery business model causes food access and cost problems.  For example, some grocers do not offer fresh produce in low-income neighborhoods while suburban grocers stock an ample supply of fresh, healthful groceries. And more generally, the separate-enterprise models of other kinds of businesses also cause access and cost problems, including auto manufacturers, drug stores, retail outlets, banking, insurance, hospitals, physicians’ offices, schools, local governments, and thousands of other enterprises.
It is common sense that the more consolidation, the cheaper the dues.  Therefore consolidation of the separate-enterprise business model should be the goal.  And that means a national, single employer.
Single-employer would be administered by the federal government, and would be our sole national purchaser of labor.  Government single employer would eliminate the duplicative and needlessly expensive overhead of our present independent and poorly-coordinated employers.  The cost of business administration and related payroll costs would drop by 50%.
The trillions saved would permit the single employer system to employ everyone above age 15.
In fact, no one who wants to work would be denied a job.  Not just junk jobs, but meaningful, high-paying jobs.  The government would assign people to jobs using modern, efficient planning processes without regard to gender, race, national origin or ability to work.  Every working-age American will have a job, and earn a decent living wage paid from public funds.  Result: the curse of unemployment is gone forever, financed by savings from the change to single-employer.
Everyone could then have medical insurance through the federal government at less cost than today, giving citizens even more spending money as well as making American goods more competitive.
You can keep your employer coverage as long as your employer doesn’t take it away.
+ Follow on Forbes
Iam a Senior Fellow at theManhattan Institute for Policy Researchand a member of Mitt Romney’sHealth Care Policy Advisory Group. To contact me,click here. To receive a weekly e-mail digest of articles from The Apothecary,sign up here, or you can subscribe to The Apothecary’sRSS feedor myTwitter feed. In addition to myForbesblog, I write on health care, fiscal matters, finance, and other policy issues forNational Review. My work has also appeared inNational Affairs,USA Today,The Atlantic, and other publications. Professionally, I am ahealth care investment analyst.  Previously, I worked as an analyst and portfolio manager at J.P. Morgan, Bain Capital, and other firms.
The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer.
