Edwards's Sapien Gains Medicare Coverage for Heart Valve

Jennifer Mothershead, 29
Prosecutors said Mothershead was arrested Friday and charged with assault after a lengthy investigation.
According to police, Mothershead's daughter was airlifted to Harborview Medical Center in Seattle in May 2011 after sustaining a serious head injury. The girl, who was 14 months old at the time, also had an eye infection. Doctors called the Pierce County Sheriff's Department because they suspected the head injury was a result of abuse.
CBS affiliateKOMOreports when the mother was asked about the eye infection, Mothershead said her daughter's eyes had been swollen shut for about four weeks and that the issue began in March 2011 when her daughter got a scratch on her eye while playing in a barn, documents said.
She said her daughter was given antibiotics and eye drops for the infection and that she was primary person to put them in her eyes as her husband had just recently filed for divorce. According to court documents, she wanted the father's visits severely limited because of the baby's fragile eye condition.
Mothershead didn't provide an explanation for the head injury. According to the detective, she also didn't show any emotion about her daughter's injuries.
The detectives placed the girl in state protective custody.
Mothershead had brought the eye drops to the hospital. A staff member later then opened the drops and noticed a foul odor. Investigators sent the drops to the Food and Drug Administration's Forensic Chemistry Lab for analysis. The lab determined the drops contained bleach.
"The staff at Harborview determined that the damage to the child's eyes was consistent with repeated exposure to bleach, and ruled out any possibility that the eye dropper had been merely cleaned with bleach," prosecutors said in a statement.
The girl's condition improved in the hospital but doctors noted she'd lost vision in her right eye. The girl now lives with her father.
Mothershead, 29, was ordered held in lieu of $150,000 bail.

If you believe this comment is offensive or violates the CBSNews.comTerms of Use, you can report it below (this will not automatically remove the comment). Once reported, our staff will be notified and the comment will be reviewed.
Select type of offense:
Offensive:Sexually explicit or offensive language
Spam:Advertisements, commercial links, or repetitive posts
Disruptive posting:Flaming or offending other users
Illegal activities:Promote cracked software, or other illegal content
Off-topic:Commentary unrelated to the storyline
Comments(optional):
E-mail this to:
Your e-mail address:
Note:Your e-mail address is used only to let the recipient know who sent the e-mail and in case of transmission error. Neither your address nor the recipients's address will be used for any other purpose.
Add your own personal message:(Optional)
15 Photos
8 Photos
43 Photos
StoriesMore »
VideosMore »
Enjoy CBS This Morning all day long!  Get instant access to original news stories, videos and interviews from Gayle King, Erica Hill and more.
