Exercise Plus Computer Time May Boost Seniors' Brains
BySimon Tomlinson
PUBLISHED:13:20 EST, 27 April 2012|UPDATED:08:00 EST, 28 April 2012
Toothless trauma: A boyfriend (not pictured) had all his teeth pulled out by his dentist ex-girlfriend in revenge at him dumping her (file image)
A dentist pulled out all her ex-boyfriend’s teeth after he dumped her for another woman – who has now left him because he is toothless.
Anna Mackowiak, 34, is facing jail after taking her revenge on 45-year-old Marek Olszewski when he turned up at her surgery with toothache just days after breaking up with her.
She gave him a heavy dose of anaesthetic and plucked his teeth out.
She then wrapped his head and jaw in a bandage to stop him opening his mouth and said there had been complications and he would need to see a specialist.
The dentist, who works in Wroclaw, Poland, said: ‘I tried to be professional and detach myself from my emotions.
'But when I saw him lying there I just thought, "What a b******".'
Mr Olszewski said: 'I knew something was wrong because when I woke up I couldn’t feel any teeth and my jaw was strapped up with bandages.More...Bus driver who beat British student, 21, to death in Poland begs for leniency because he has 'wife and family to care for'Sun, sea and scams: Cheating mother who falsely claimed £37,000 in benefits caught after posting holiday snaps on FacebookWoman, 71, sues dentist after 'he dropped a SCREWDRIVER down her throat that migrated into her digestive tract'
'She told me my mouth was numb and I wouldn’t be able to feel anything for a while and that the bandage was there to protect the gums, but that I would need to see a specialist.
'I didn’t have any reason to doubt her, I mean I thought she was a professional.
Flipped: Anna Mackowiak (not pictured) is being investigated for medical malpractice and abusing the trust of a patient. She could face three years in jail (image posed by model)
'But when I got home I looked in the mirror and couldn’t f****** believe it. The b**** had emptied my mouth.
'The new girlfriend has now left me saying she can’t be with a man without teeth.
'And I’m going to have to pay a fortune on getting indents or something.’
Mackowiak is being investigated for medical malpractice and abusing the trust of a patient. She could face three years in jail.
Here's what other readers have said. Why notdebate this issue live on our message boards.
The comments below have been moderated in advance.
"hell hath no fury like ----" weg
- weg , glasgow, 28/4/2012 14:20
Report abuse
- Victoria, London, UK, 28/4/2012 09:41 
Just thought I'd say you covered all the bases and I totally agree with you. Your comment is an intelligent, well written one. Thanks!
- Will wonders never cease?, North Carolina, USA, 28/4/2012 14:18
Report abuse
I would say he' has little chance of a claim, it's a bit like putting head in a lions mouth or throwing yourself under a bus.
- Royston Amphlett, Bournemouth England, 28/4/2012 14:12
Report abuse
How dumb do you have to be to go back to a girl you just dumped for dental treatment, and did he not speak or open his mouth when the new girlfriend met him!!
- An Englishwoman, Newcastle UK/Tampa FL, 28/4/2012 14:10
Report abuse
For people who said he shouldn't have gone to her, remember he had toothache so probably finding a new dentist wasn't possible that quickly and I can't imagine if he thought of a worst case scenario it involved having all his teeth removed!
- jenny, Berkshire, 28/4/2012 14:09
Report abuse
This dentist is dangerous, period. As a dentist she knows the value both physically and psychologically of your teeth. She has done a horrible thing to this man. Aside from our not knowing what the man may have done to her, he must have a large ego and no common sense, but she has breached all boundaries of proper dental care. Three years would be a very poor amount of time served.
- Will wonders never cease?, North Carolina, USA, 28/4/2012 14:06
Report abuse
she should face jail as she as also betrayed her profession as a dentist. Why did go back to ex away. He should have gone somewhere else.
- ANGELI BHALLA, WEST EALING, 28/4/2012 14:04
Report abuse
You dump your girl friend who is a dentist to have your teeth seen too, your really dicing with fire.
- Royston Amphlett, Bournemouth England, 28/4/2012 14:01
Report abuse
You have to question the common sense of a man who dumps his girlfriend for another woman and then turns up shortly afterwards expecting her to resolve his toothache. Whilst yes it might have been reasonable of him to expect her to be professional. Surely he must have had some kind of voice at the back of his mind that said 'hmm just dumped her, perhaps I should go see a different dentist!' Whilst I do not condone her actions. The phrase 'Hell hath no fury like a woman scorned' was coined for a reason!
- TB, Lincolnshire., 28/4/2012 13:39
Report abuse
What on earth was he thinking of turning up for treatment within days of dumping her? He should think himself lucky it wasn't a general anesthetic he could have woken up with a Bobbitt.
- Tom, York, 28/4/2012 13:36
Report abuse
The views expressed in the contents above are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of MailOnline.
We are no longer accepting comments on this article.
Published by Associated Newspapers Ltd
Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday & Metro Media Group
