SPOILER: Who Was Eliminated on Dancing with the Stars?
Register now for free, or sign in with any of these services:
They are calledthe Avengers, an all-star group of crusading superheroes, spies and assassins, including Thor, Iron Man, the Hulk, Captain America, Black Widow and Hawkeye. That much we know.
Still, the question remains: Who, exactly, are they avenging?
The answer turns out to be easy: Comic book fans everywhere.
Every fan who’s ever walked out of a superhero film saying, “You know, the effects don’t have to look bad …” Who’s grumbled at corny dialogue, or cavalier rewrites. Who’s protested, “You know, these things can be serious fun.”
Because that’s what “The Avengers” is — and that’s who they’ve come to stick up for.
No, the movie isn’t as seriously dark and stylish asChristopher Nolan’s Gotham City films — that’s a different place, a different universe. But it is true to Marvel.
And, after years of buildup, it’s a reward to patient audiences who’ve been waiting for this team-up for years.
For the non-initiated — and certainly some interest has flagged among the general populace — it does help to have seen the past few films in the Marvel series.
One sort-of hero here, the agent Black Widow, comes from “Iron Man 2”; her equally morally ambiguous buddy, Hawkeye, was introduced in “Thor,” as was this film’s chief villain, Loki. And the big whatsis they’re all after — a powerful energy source that can open the gateway to another world — was part of the plot of “Captain America.”
Got it? Good. Now you’re up to speed for a movie which, like any classic caper, first introduces us to our heroes, then brings them together as a team (with plenty of flare-ups along the way) and finally unleashes them on the common (but, frankly, not-so-common) enemy.
Director and co-writerJoss Whedonis an old genre hand, as is Zak Penn, who collaborated on the script with him; clearly, they get this material. And, even better, while they understand the conflict in these characters, they also get the humor in them and — knowing there’s not enough time to dwell on each character’s flaws — go for a lighter touch.
Smartly, they divvy the jokes up, too, the way the Marx Brothers did. Not that this is “A Night at the Apocalypse,” but each character has his own approach, and his own source and style of humor.
SoRobert Downey Jr. gets the snobbish witticisms (even slipping in an Elizabethan obscenity); Mark Ruffalo’sHulk(or, at least, his CGI self) gets the physical gags. Chris Evans’ Captain America is all straight-arrow naïveté; Chris Hemsworth’s Thor, a classic fish out of water.
Add the real-life sex appeal ofScarlett JohanssonandJeremy Renneras Black Widow and Hawkeye, andSamuel L. Jacksondoing full-on Samuel L. Jackson as big boss Nick Fury, and there’s more than enough starry charisma to go around.
The film — like most films like it — takes a little too long to set up its team. (TV’s Mr. Phelps did it best and quickest, by simply flipping through a few Impossible Mission Force head shots). Whedon is still more of a sly writer than an eye-catching visualist, too. (He only seems to remember he’s shooting a 3D movie in the last half hour.)
And, I’m sorry, but this is now the third-go-round for the Hulk in less than a decade, and he’s still too big, and still too much of an obviously software-generated cartoon. How hard is this? People, get right next film — or Hulk smash.
But — as the greatStan Leehimself would observe — ’nuff said. This is the kind of rally fans have been dreaming about since Jackson’s Nick Fury showed up, uncredited, in the first “Iron Man,” to start putting this team together.
Except the folks our superheroes are fighting for this time are us.
Ratings note: The film contains some strong language and violence.
'The Avengers'(PG-13) Disney (142 min.)
Directed by Joss Whedon. With Robert Downey Jr., Chris Evans, Mark Ruffalo, Chris Hemsworth, Scarlett Johansson, Jeremy Renner, Samuel L. Jackson. Now playing in New Jersey.
THREE AND A HALF STARS

ah,,no!
You mustaccept the terms of servicebefore you can post a comment.
Register now for free, or sign in with any of these services:
