FDA approves Vivus's fast-acting Viagra rival
A Florida mom dying from stage-four breast cancer thought the emotional video she filmed would only be seen after her death.
But after her family uploaded it to YouTube two weeks ago, the heart-wrenching message mobilized viewers worldwide to ask a California drug company to give her the trial medication that could possibly extend her life.
Darlene Gant, 46, told the Daily News on Monday the online campaign was effective — and she’s since received her first dose of the drug called pertuzumab through an IV.
“I feel so blessed and I do thank the outpouring of support from people all over the globe. It’s totally wild,” the Brooklyn-born Gant said in a phone interview from her Tampa Bay home.
Gant was first diagnosed with breast cancer in 2006, but after going into remission, it returned in 2010. She learned about pertuzumab, a breast cancer drug not yet approved by the FDA, that could possibly extend her life, she said.
But the drug isn’t expected to be released until June. In the 20-minute YouTube video, she asked the U.S. Food and Drug Administration to release it earlier, as doctors told her she may not live that long.
Tears roll down her face in the YouTube clip as she speaks about a future without her husband, Brian, a former Tampa Bay Buccaneer, and their 11-year-old son, Cameron.
“Did you always know I loved you?” she wrote in a card her son will receive when he turns 12. “Of all the things in my life I could have or should have done differently, there’s one thing I’d never change: having you as my son.”
Gant received the drug from pharmaceutical company Genentech, which submitted an application for pertuzumab to the FDA in December.
Genentech spokeswomanKrysta Pellegrinosaid the company received e-mails about Gant’s plight after her video hit YouTube, and officials there spoke with her physicians to determine that she could receive the drug for “compassionate use.”
She added that while the video helped bring Gant to the company’s attention, it was not what led them to give her the medication.
LEARN MORE ABOUT BREAST CANCER
“It needs to be on a case by case basis,” she added.
Gant must take the drug every three weeks. For now, she said, she’s looking forward to a Mother’s Day with her son and her own mother, who resides in Middletown, N.Y.
“She was very sad and depressed before, and waiting to die,” said Gant’s mom,Elaine Steiner. “But now she’s waiting to live.”

Here are some of the worst/best ones we found still available on Suggest.
Amar'e came to NY before the 2010-11 season, proclaimed "The Knicks are back."
Worries over the safety of witnesses could delay the trial against Trayvon Martin’s killer.
Kate Upton is taking the fashion industry by storm with her voluptuous curves and girl-next-door appeal.
Three generations of a Bronx family died when an SUV carrying 7 people vaulted off an overpass.
Spring is here and the stars are out - really out. Take a look at the hottest beach bods of 2012.
After 31 years, Kiss-FM says goodbye, merges with WBLS.
If you don't know your shields from your S.H.I.E.L.D., we'll get you up to speed faster than a lightning bolt from Mjolnir.
The 120-pound mastiff latched his jaws around the boy's head and furiously shook him back and forth, police said.
Take a look back at how the site has grown out of the rubble and into the Freedom Tower ...
One World Trade Center officially eclipses the Empire State Building.
Kris Jenner supports her daughter’s plan to one day run for mayor.
A crazed gunman shot his pregnant girlfriend and was then wounded by police in a wild shootout near an airport in Daytona Beach, Fla., police said.
Sometimes Hollywood stars fail to put their best, er, face forward.
