Tempeh a Possible Source of Rare Typhoidal Salmonella Outbreak

A picture of formerly conjoined twins Angelica and Angelina Sabuco on April 25, 2012
Conjoined twins undergo separation surgery in Calif.PICTURES: Conjoined twins: 40 amazing photos (GRAPHIC IMAGES)PICTURES: Formerly conjoined Sabuco twins: How are they now?
The twin girls from the Philippines were born joined at the chest and abdomen, and months of planning went into the procedure that was carried out at the Calif. hospital. The 10-hour operation was led by pediatric surgeon Dr. Gary Hartman of Lucile Packard Children's Hospital, and took more than 20 doctors and nurses from various health backgrounds to assist.
The procedure was a success,HealthPopreported, and doctors were hopeful for their recovery. As little as 10 days after the procedure, the girls wereready to head home.
Now, six months have passed. How are the girls doing with their independent bodies?
"They love to run around, go out, and play with other children now," mother Ginady Sabuco said in a hospital news release. "We are so grateful to Packard Children's."
The girls were the "guests of honor" at a party at the hospital on Monday along with many of the nurses and doctors who cared for them during their two-week hospital stay last fall, theAssociated Pressreported.
According to the hospital, the twins are flourishing into their distinct personalities - Angelica is the talkative one - and they recently enjoyed their first Easter egg hunt. In August the girls will celebrate their 3rd birthday for the first time separately.
"That is a great birthday gift!" said Ginady.
Dr. Hartman said the girls' recovery has been smooth and each time he sees them, they're more mobile and better adjusted. The girls have had to go physical and occupational therapy to build their strength and improve their gross- and fine-motor skills.
Since the girls were separated at the chest, they still visit with their plastic surgeon Dr. Peter Lorenz of Packard's Children's who had implanted a custom-made plate in the girls' chests where their sternum should be. The plates will dissolve later this year as the bones fuse, Lorenz said.
"I love seeing them and knowing that they are now living life as normal 2-year-olds," said Hartman. "That has been our goal all along."
Click to see new pictures of the twins, as well as before-and-after pictures from their surgery.

If you believe this comment is offensive or violates the CBSNews.comTerms of Use, you can report it below (this will not automatically remove the comment). Once reported, our staff will be notified and the comment will be reviewed.
Select type of offense:
Offensive:Sexually explicit or offensive language
Spam:Advertisements, commercial links, or repetitive posts
Disruptive posting:Flaming or offending other users
Illegal activities:Promote cracked software, or other illegal content
Off-topic:Commentary unrelated to the storyline
Comments(optional):
E-mail this to:
Your e-mail address:
Note:Your e-mail address is used only to let the recipient know who sent the e-mail and in case of transmission error. Neither your address nor the recipients's address will be used for any other purpose.
Add your own personal message:(Optional)
24 Photos
19 Photos
21 Photos
StoriesMore »
VideosMore »
Enjoy CBS This Morning all day long!  Get instant access to original news stories, videos and interviews from Gayle King, Erica Hill and more.
