Small study links Tasers to cardiac arrest
Home>Health>Health News>Exercise Plus Computer Time May Boost Seniors' Brains

TUESDAY, May 1 (HealthDay News) -- A combination of moderate exercise and mental stimulation through computer use may help reduce the risk of age-related memory loss more than computer use or exercise alone, according to new research.
The study, published in the May issue ofMayo Clinic Proceedings, included more than 920 people in Olmsted County, Minn., aged 70 to 93, who completed questionnaires about their computer use and physical activity over the previous year.
The Mayo Clinic researchers found signs of mild cognitive impairment in nearly 38 percent of participants who did not exercise and did not use a computer, compared with just over 18 percent of those who did moderate exercise and also used a computer. Mild cognitive impairment is the stage between normal age-related memory loss and early Alzheimer's disease.
The investigators also found that 36 percent of participants who did moderate exercise and used a computer had normal memory function, compared with about 20 percent of those who did not exercise or use a computer.
Moderate exercise included brisk walking, hiking, aerobics, strength training, golfing without a golf cart, swimming, doubles tennis, yoga, martial arts, weightlifting and using exercise machines, the authors explained in a Mayo Clinic news release.
"The aging of baby boomers is projected to lead to dramatic increases in the prevalence of dementia," study author Dr. Yonas Geda, a physician scientist at the Mayo Clinic in Arizona, said in the news release. "As frequent computer use has become increasingly common among all age groups, it is important to examine how it relates to aging and dementia. Our study further adds to this discussion."
Although the study uncovered an association between combined exercise and computer use and better memory function, it did not prove a cause-and-effect relationship.
More information
The U.S. National Institute on Aging has more aboutmemory loss.
Copyright © 2012HealthDay. All rights reserved.
advertisement
U.S. News's"Best" delivers recognized, authoritative information and clear, objective rankings that help readers plan for their life and ultimately, make the most of it.
Learn how to recognize the symptoms.
Rheumatoid Arthritis can affect the young and old alike.
Know your triggers to prevent a migraine meltdown.
advertisement
The definitive U.S. News guide to hospitals, with 172 full-color pages of rankings, special reports, and more.
#bottom dl.editors-picks dd p {
font-size:1.1em;
}Hospitals by City
advertisement
Copyright ©
      2012
      U.S.News & World Report LP All rights reserved.
Use of this Web site constitutes acceptance of ourTerms and Conditions of UseandPrivacy Policy.
