CORRECT: UK Advertising Watchdog Gets New Complaints Over Apple's iPad Claims
Just by looking at the front of the box, you wouldn't know the HTC One X is AT&T's first Android phone running Ice Cream Sandwich—or much of anything else about it, really. That's because AT&T's trademark, orange-and-white packaging hides what lies within.
The HTC One X features a beautiful, high-definition, 4.7-inch display, with 1280-by-720-pixel (720p) resolution. Under the hood, the HTC One X is just as impressive. It features Qualcomm's next-generation Snapdragon S4 CPU, a 1.5-GHz dual-core chip with faster graphics and improved power efficiency. There's also 1GB RAM, 16GB of internal storage, and the usual compliment of GPS, Wi-Fi, and Bluetooth radios.
It's also definitely a big phone. Even though the HTC One X is surprisingly slim and light, at just 0.36 inches deep and 4.6 ounces, there's no getting around the 5.3-inch length and 2.75-inch width. Unless you have big hands, it will feel a little weird to hold up to your head during voice calls. It's not unbearable by any means, but if you're coming from a texting phone, an iPhone, or an older Android phone, the size difference will be striking.
The HTC One X's major competitors on AT&T are theSamsung Galaxy S II Skyrocket, which is our current Editors' Choice smartphone on AT&T, and theApple iPhone 4S, which competes with all high-end Android phones just by virtue of its existence. The Skyrocket lacks the One X's high-definition screen, and it runs Android 2.3 (Gingerbread) instead of Android 4.0 (Ice Cream Sandwich). It's a pretty killer device otherwise, though.
We've already reviewed the HTC One S, the One X's slightly smaller sibling, for T-Mobile; read ourfull reviewto get an early idea of how the One X will perform.
If you're not sure what smartphone is right for you, take a look at what other phones the One X is up against in our list ofThe Best Phones on AT&T.
Check out the HTC One X unboxing slideshow to see exactly what you're getting for your hard-earned cash. For a closer look, check back tomorrow morning for our full HTC One X review.
BEGIN ZIFF SPLASHView SlideshowSee all(15)slidesMoreEND ZIFF SPLASHHTML MODULE 3748
For the top stories in tech, follow us on Twitter at@PCMag.
Automatic Renewal Program: Your subscription will continue without interruption for as long as you wish, unless 
you instruct us otherwise. Your subscription will automatically renew at the end of the term unless you authorize 
cancellation. Each year, you'll receive a notice and you authorize that your credit/debit card will be charged the 
annual subscription rate(s). You may cancel at any time during your subscription and receive a full refund on all 
unsent issues. If your credit/debit card or other billing method can not be charged, we will bill you directly instead.
Use of this site is governed by ourTerms of UseandPrivacy Policy.Copyright 1996-2012 Ziff Davis, Inc. All Rights Reserved. PC Magazine is a registered 

trademark of Ziff Davis, Inc. Reproduction in whole or in part in any form or medium without express written permission of Ziff Davis, Inc. is prohibited.
