2012 MTV Movie Awards
Weather:Sydney 13°C-
						24°C.
					 Sunny morning. Light rain later.
Promo tour:  (Left to right) Jeremy Renner, Chris Hemsworth, Scarlett Johansson, Robert Downey Jr., and Mark Ruffalo, in Moscow.  The Avengers has been a global box office hit.  Picture:  APSource:AP
google_ad_section_start(name=story_introduction, weight=high)"THE Avengers" has sold US$178.4 million ($170 million) in overseas tickets days before hitting US theatres.google_ad_section_end(name=story_introduction)
US audiences generally passed on a bunch of new flicks as fans seem to be in anticipation mode for Disney's "The Avengers," which debuts on Friday in the United States after launching in 39 other countries a week earlier.
The huge overseas launch will help fan the frenzy already in place for "The Avengers," the superhero mash-up of Marvel Comics idols whose cast includes Robert Downey Jr., Scarlett Johansson, Chris Evans, Chris Hemsworth, Mark Ruffalo, Jeremy Renner and Samuel L. Jackson.
"You hope that the magnitude of this kind of opening sends a signal that this is a for-everyone film," said Dave Hollis, head of distribution for Disney. "You can't put up these kinds of numbers if it's just for guys or just for the fans. These numbers say that it is for everyone, 8 to 80."
The Sony Screen Gems ensemble comedy "Think Like a Man" was No. 1 in the US for the second-straight weekend with US$18 million.
Four movies were bunched up for the No. 2 spot in the US$11 million range: Sony's animated comedy "The Pirates! Band of Misfits" with US$11.4 million; the Warner Bros. romantic drama "The Lucky One" with US$11.3 million; Lionsgate's blockbuster "The Hunger Games" with US$11.25 million; and Universal's romantic comedy "The Five-Year Engagement" with US$11.2 million.
Those four flicks were so close that their rankings from studio estimates could change once final numbers are released tomorrow.
Along with "Pirates," whose voice cast was led by Hugh Grant, and "Five-Year Engagement," which stars Jason Segel and Emily Blunt, the other newcomers were Jason Statham's action tale "Safe" from Lionsgate at No. 6 with US$7.7 million and John Cusack's Edgar Allan Poe mystery "The Raven" from Relativity Media at No. 7 with US$7.3 million.
"I think going to the movies will be the No. 1 priority next weekend but clearly was not the No. 1 priority this weekend," said Paul Dergarabedian, analyst for box-office tracker Hollywood.com. "There's so much anticipation for 'The Avengers' that the newcomers kind of got lost in the shuffle."
"The Hunger Games" climbed to US$372.5 million in the US, putting it less than US$10 million behind last year's "Harry Potter" finale, the top-grossing entry of that fantasy franchise.
"Think Like a Man" raised its domestic total to US$60.9 million, while "The Lucky One" lifted its haul to US$39.9 million.
Along with the United States, "The Avengers" has yet to open in other big markets that include Japan, China and Russia.
Among the overseas totals for "The Avengers": US$24.7 million in the United Kingdom; US$19.7 million in Australia; US$15.9 million in Mexico; US$12.9 million in South Korea; and US$12.9 million in France.
Directed by Joss Whedon ("Buffy the Vampire Slayer"), "The Avengers" has strong word-of-mouth domestically from fans who were able to see advanced screenings.
Critics also have given the film high marks, and the publicity blast from the overseas revenues could push the movie into record-debut territory. The "Harry Potter" finale now has the top opening weekend domestically with US$169.2 million, followed by "The Dark Knight" with US$158.4 million and "The Hunger Games" with US$152.5 million.
"Who knows?" Disney's Hollis said. "It's a film that comes with very high expectations but leaves audiences exceptionally satisfied. I'd say there's opportunity for some repeat viewing just in the first weekend that will help make it big."
Estimated ticket sales for Friday through Sunday at U.S. and Canadian theaters, according to Hollywood.com. Where available, latest international numbers are also included. Final domestic figures will be released tomorrow.
1. "Think Like a Man," US$18 million.
2. "The Pirates! Band of Misfits," US$11.4 million ($5.5 million international).
3. "The Lucky One," US$11.3 million.
4. "The Hunger Games," US$11.25 million.
5. "The Five-Year Engagement," US$11.2 million.
6. "Safe," US$7.7 million.
7. "The Raven," US$7.3 million.
8. "Chimpanzee," US$5.5 million.
9. "The Three Stooges," US$5.4 million.
10. "The Cabin in the Woods," US$4.5 million.
Back to top of page
1200characters left
SHE manages to turn heads when dressing conservatively so imagine what model could do if she wore a red bikini while dancing.
ICONIC writer scolds super-rich (including himself) for not giving back, and warns of apocalyptic scenario otherwise.
+ More Most Popular
Exercising again, Miley? The ultra slim Pilates-goer steps out for a walk with her pooch Floyd.
Drop us a line atentertainment@news.com.au
Copyright 2012 News Limited. All times AEST (GMT +10:00).
