HSBC China PMI Rises In April, Signals Economy Recovering
12:09 p.m. | Updated
P.F. Chang’s China Bistro, the Asian-themed restaurant operator, has agreed to go private in a deal valued at $1.1 billion.
Under the terms of the transaction announced on Tuesday, Centerbridge Partners, theprivate equityfirm, will pay P.F. Chang’s shareholders $51.50 a share in cash, 29.8 percent above the closing price on Monday. P.F. Chang’s also has the option to shop itself to other buyers during the next 30 days to find a superior bid.
Founded about two decades ago in Scottsdale, Ariz., by Paul Fleming and the chef Philip Chiang, P.F. Chang’s was designed to offer affordable oriental cuisine with a Western flair, with dishes like “Philip’s Better Lemon Chicken” and “Dynamite Shrimp.” It manages two restaurant brands: its namesake line, a Chinese-inspired restaurant chain, and Pei Wei’s Asian Diner, a more casual pan-Asian chain.
P.F. Chang’s China Bistro restaurants features a gluten-free menu and an extensive wine list. It it fully owns its restaurants in the United States, it also sells licensing agreements abroad, with franchises in Kuwait City and Dubai.
While P.F. Chang’s is a well-known domestic brand with hundreds of locations in the United States, it has straining to shore up sales and foot traffic. In the first quarter, revenue rose slightly, to $318.9 million, from the period a year earlier, while its profit narrowed to $6.3 million. Sales at stores open more than a year fell 0.6 percent at P.F. Chang’s China Bistro and dropped 1.7 percent at Pei Wei’s for the first quarter.
“We are confident that being a private company will provide us with greater flexibility to focus on our long-term strategic plan of elevating our guest experience, enhancing our value proposition, growing traffic and improving the performance of our brands,” Richard L. Federico, the chief executive of P.F. Chang’s, said in a statement.
The deal would be the largest leveraged buyout of a restaurant chain since the $4.2 billion buyout of Burger King Holdings in September 2010, according to S&P Capital IQ.  It is expected to close by the end of the third quarter.
The transaction comes as other casual dining chains struggle to turn around their operations under private equity ownership. Friendly Ice Cream, owner of Friendly’s, was acquired by Sun Capital Partners for $337.2 million five years ago. In 2011, it shuttered dozens of restaurants andfiled for bankruptcy protection, emerging earlier this year.
In December, a  judge approved the sale of Friendly’s to a  affiliate for $75 million. The Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation, an independent federal agency, accused the private equity firm of orchestrating the series of transactions to avoid paying pension benefits to thousands of workers and retirees.
A series of British governments have struggled with the question of expanding London’s airport capacity, but a weak economy makes the question more difficult.
With their economy in recession and facing new belt-tightening measures, the Dutch are showing grim determination.
A damning report on the hacking scandal at Rupert Murdoch’s British papers convulsed the political and media worlds in Britain and threatens a core asset of News Corporation.
Chesapeake Energy announced that it would replace Aubrey K. McClendon as chairman and end his controversial compensation plan.
History is short on examples of a society's taking action on behalf of beneficiaries who are two or more generations into the future if it involves sacrifice, a scientist suggests.
A new study suggests that, if anything, a recent E.P.A. finding underestimated the greenhouse gas emissions related to palm oil production in Asia.
A damning report on the hacking scandal at Rupert Murdoch’s British papers convulsed the political and media worlds in Britain and threatens a core asset of News Corporation.
The one-time media mogul had given up his Canadian citizenship to receive a British peerage.
While several fellow moguls offered kind words to Mr. Murdoch, Ted Turner wasn't quite so supportive.
At a company known for a hard-driving culture, a seven-week course in mindfulness techniques is giving employees a better way to cope.
Apple serves as a window on how technology giants have taken advantage of tax codes written for an industrial age and ill suited to today’s digital economy.
Sales in China helped lift overall iPhone sales by 88 percent over the same quarter a year ago, dispelling fears that sales would lag in nations with lower annual incomes.
An icy clash between Gov. Mark Dayton, a Democrat, and Republican lawmakers shows the politics involved in a crucial element of the new federal health care law.
The dispute pits nurse anesthetists, who specialize in administering anesthesia and maintain that they are well equipped to treat patients on their own, against anesthesiologists.
An analysis of eight people who went into cardiac arrest after receiving shocks from the devices highlights the risks they carry and the importance of using them properly.
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon, and receive breaking news alerts throughout the day.
Subscribe
Sign up for the latest financial news delivered every morning and afternoon.
When your need to know is right now.
Download for quick access to up-to-the minute financial news.
Facebook
Twitter
YouTube
RSS
