A Rebellion at the Federal Reserve?
P.F. Chang’s China Bistro Inc. (PFCB), the
biggest Asian full-service restaurant operator in the U.S. by
market share, agreed to be taken private by Centerbridge
Partners LP in a deal valuing the company at $1.1 billion.
The takeover would give New York-based Centerbridge, which
has about $20 billion in capital under management, a chain with
almost 400 restaurants under the P.F. Chang’s China Bistro and
Pei Wei brands. Centerbridge offered $51.50 a share in cash,
about 30 percent higher than the average share price over the
past 30 days, the companies said today in a statement.
The deal brings the value of private-equity transactions in
the restaurant industry over the past two years to $12 billion,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Restaurant chains have
been a favorite target for private investors, because their
cash-flow makes financing deals easy and brands can benefit from
cost-cutting or expansion measures.
“Any potential buyer will pave the way for greater cost
scrutiny, potential closures of underperforming units and a more
rapid turnaround,”Stephen Anderson, a New York-based analyst
at Miller Tabak & Co., said in a research note today about the
deal.
P.F. Chang’sclimbed30 percent to $51.48 at the close of
trading inNew York. Scottsdale, Arizona-based P.F. Chang’s has
gained 67 percent this year.
Burger King Worldwide Holdings Inc., which was taken
private in 2010 by New York-based 3G Capital Inc. in a deal
valued at $3.3 billion, has opened new restaurants in Brazil andVietnam. The company will go public again after merging with a
company owned byWilliam Ackman, it said last month.
Last year, Atlanta-based buyout firm Roark Capital Group
bought about 82 percent of Arby’s Restaurant Group Inc. from
Wendy’s Co. in a deal valued at $430 million. Arby’s has sought
to turn around the brand after revenue under Wendy’s declined
from 2008 to 2010. Comparable restaurant sales rose about 5.5
percent last year, and customer traffic trends also improved,
chief operating officer George Condos said in January.
Under the terms of its agreement with Centerbridge, P.F.
Chang’s may solicit proposals from other bidders in the next 30
calendar days. First-quarterrevenuewas little changed at
$318.9 million, according to a separate statement.
P.F. Chang’s operated 204 of its Bistro restaurants in 39
states and 170 Pei Wei locations in 23 states as of Jan. 2,
according to its website. The company operates 16 Bistro
locations in international markets.
The company has recently tried to boost restaurant sales by
introducing a new lunch menu with items such as ginger chicken
with broccoli and shrimp with lobster sauce for less than $10.
Sales at P.F. Chang’s Bistro stores open at least 18 months have
declined for four straight quarters as other casual-dining
chains have advertised discounts and special deals.
Same-store sales fell 0.6 percent at P.F Chang’s Bistro and
1.7 percent at Pei Wei due to less traffic in the first quarter,
the company said today in the earnings statement.
“Being a private company will provide us with greater
flexibility to focus on our long-term strategic plan of
elevating our guest experience, enhancing our value proposition,
growing traffic and improving the performance of our brands,”
Richard Federico, the company’s chief executive officer, said in
the statement announcing the transaction.
P.F. Chang’s is the biggest Asian full-service restaurant
in the U.S. with about 6 percent of market share, according to
Technomic Inc., a Chicago-based researcher. Benihana Inc. ranks
second with 1.7 percent.
P.F. Chang’s, which first opened in Scottsdale in 1993, was
named for its founders Paul Fleming and Philip Chiang. The
company’s fast-casual brand, Pei Wei, sells noodle bowls, salads
and small plates such as crab wontons and chicken lettuce wraps.
Centerbridge was founded by Mark Gallogly, a former
Blackstone Group LP executive, and Jeffrey Aronson, who
previously led the distressed-investing team at Angelo Gordon &
Co. The private-equity firm last year raised $4.25 billion from
investors for its second fund targeting buyouts and
restructurings.
P.F. Chang’s is getting financial advice fromGoldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)and legal advice from DLA Piper LLP.Wells Fargo &
Co. (WFC)and Deutsche Bank AG are advising Centerbridge, and Weil
Gotshal & Manges LLP is serving as legal counsel for the
private-equity firm.
To contact the reporters on this story:
Devin Banerjee in New York atdbanerjee2@bloomberg.net;
Leslie Patton in Chicago atlpatton5@bloomberg.net
To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello atrajello@bloomberg.net;
Christian Baumgaertel atcbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net

