Chesapeake exec to give up chairman post
May 1 (Bloomberg) -- Jason Gammel, an analyst at Macquarie Capital Ltd., talks about oil prices, BP Plc's first-quarter results and the outlook for the company's Gulf of Mexico oil spill settlement.
     He speaks with Manus Cranny on Bloomberg Television's "Last Word." (Source: Bloomberg)
Oil climbed to a five-week high after
U.S. manufacturing increased at the fastest pace in 10 months,
signaling that economic growth will accelerate in the world’s
biggest crude-consuming country.
Futures gained 1.2 percent as theInstitute for Supply
Management’sfactory indexexceeded the most optimistic forecast
in a Bloomberg survey of economists. Prices have fallen 4
percent from a March 1 peak as tensions have eased between Iran
and Western nations over the country’s nuclear program.
“The reaction to the ISM shows that the market is much
more focused on the state of the economy than the situation with
Iran,” saidDavid Greely, head of energy research at Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. in New York. “This is the first surprise we’ve
had to the upside in quite a while.”
Crude oil for June delivery gained $1.29 to $106.16 a
barrel on theNew York Mercantile Exchange, the highest
settlement price since March 27. Oil has climbed 7.4 percent
this year.
Prices were little changed after Washington-based industry
groupAmerican Petroleum Institutesaid U.S.oil inventoriesrose 2.04 million barrels to 370.4 million last week, the
highest level since May 27, 2011. The June contract gained
$1.10, or 1 percent, to $105.97 in electronic trading at 4:34
p.m.
Brent oil for June settlement rose 19 cents to end the
session at $119.66 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange. Brent’spremiumto West Texas Intermediate
traded on the Nymex narrowed to $13.50, the smallest spread
since Jan. 31.
The ISM index expanded to 54.8 in April from 53.4 in March.
The median forecast by economists surveyed by Bloomberg called
for a drop to 53. Readings greater than 50 signal growth.
“We had really good ISM manufacturing data,” said Phil Streible, a Chicago-based commodities broker at RJO Futures.
“It exceeded expectations and signaled growth in the U.S.
That’s going to help oil demand.”
The ISM report eased concern that manufacturing is slowing
after data from the Federal Reserve Bank ofDallastrailed
estimates yesterday.
The Labor Department will release April employment data on
May 4. Payrolls climbed by 161,000 workers after a 120,000 gain
in March, according to the median forecast of 80 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg before the report. The jobless rate stayed
at 8.2 percent, the survey showed.
“The ISM is important but the jobs report later this week
will be of greater importance,” saidMike Wittner, head of oil
market research at Societe Generale SA in New York. “It was
jobs report a month ago that triggered the correction in prices
during much of April.”
Also boosting oil,China’s manufacturing expanded for a
fifth month in April. ThePurchasing Managers’ Index rose to
53.3 from 53.1 in March, the country’s statistics bureau and
logistics federation said in a statement today. That’s the
highest reading in a year.
The U.S. and China are the world’s biggest oil consumers.
Total fuel demand in the U.S. fell 0.6 percent to 18.8 million
barrels a day in the week ended April 20, according to the
Energy Department.
U.S. stocks also moved higher. The Standard & Poor’s 500
Index gained 0.6 percent.
“The equity market is contributing to the gain” in oil,
saidGene McGillian, an analyst and broker at Tradition Energy
inStamford,Connecticut. “The market broke the $105 resistance
level and this has triggered some technical buying.”
An Energy Department report tomorrow will probably show
that U.S. crude stockpiles rose2.5 million barrelslast week to
375.5 million, according to the median of 11 analyst projections
in a Bloomberg survey.
The department is scheduled to release its weekly report at
10:30 a.m. tomorrow inWashington.
Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 526,312
contracts as of 4:34 p.m. inNew York. Volume totaled 412,374
contracts yesterday, 34 percent below the three-month average.
Open interest was 1.58 million.
To contact the reporters on this story:
Moming Zhou in New York atmzhou29@bloomberg.net;
Mark Shenk in New York atmshenk1@bloomberg.net
To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets atdstets@bloomberg.net

