Wal-Mart to pay $4.8 million in back wages
Tomohiro Ohsumi/Bloomberg
Pedestrians walks past an electronic stock board outside a securities firm in Tokyo, Japan.
Pedestrians walks past an electronic stock board outside a securities firm in Tokyo, Japan. Photographer: Tomohiro Ohsumi/Bloomberg
May 2 (Bloomberg) -- Brett Le Mesurier, a banking analyst at BBY Ltd., talks about Australia's banking industry and the impact of the recent rate decision by the Reserve Bank of Australia on mortgage lending.
     The RBA, which cut interest rates by the most in three years yesterday, is poised to reduce benchmark borrowing costs to an all-time low this year, credit markets show. Le Mesurier speaks from Sydney with Rishaad Salamat on Bloomberg Television's "On the Move Asia." (Source: Bloomberg)
May 2 (Bloomberg) -- Peter Esho, Sydney-based chief market analyst at City Index Ltd., a London-based provider of trading services in bonds, stocks and commodities, talks about Australia stocks and central bank monetary policy.
     He speaks with Susan Li on Bloomberg Television's "First Up." (Source: Bloomberg)
May 1 (Bloomberg) -- Jim Chanos, founder of Kynikos  Associates Ltd., talks about the importance of short selling to markets, his investment strategy, and the outlook for China's economy and banking industry.
     He speaks with Stephanie Ruhle at the Milken Institute 2012 Global Conference in Los Angeles on Bloomberg Television's "Street Smart." (Source: Bloomberg)
Asian stocks rose, led by Taiwan and
mainland China, while regional bond risk fell after data showed
improved manufacturing in the U.S. and China, the two biggest
economies. The yen slid against all of its 16 major peers.
TheMSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)added 0.8 percent as of 2:18
p.m. in Tokyo, while theTaiex Index (TWSE)jumped 2.3 percent. The
Shanghaicomposite (SHCOMP)gauge rose 1.8 percent, the most in two
weeks. The yen weakened 0.3 percent against the dollar, while
the won touched the strongest level in a month. Dow Jones
Industrial Average futures was little changed after the gauge
closed at the highest level since 2007 yesterday.
U.S. manufacturing unexpectedly expanded and a Chinese
factory index rose in April, reports showed. Three voting
members of the Federal Reserve Open Market Committee said they
don’t see a need to ease policy further as the economy maintains
its expansion. U.S. companies probably added 170,000 workers in
April after a 209,000 gain the previous month, according to
economists surveyed by Bloomberg before the ADP Employer
Services report.
“I’m not that worried about growth inChina,” said
Masahiko Ejiri, a senior fund manager in Tokyo at Mizuho Asset
Management Co., which oversees $39 billion. “We are quite
positive about the Chinese economy and the prospects for the
equity market. There will be more enthusiasm coming for the
second half.”
Two stocks climbed for each that fell in the MSCI Asia
Pacific Index. The Shanghai Stock Exchange Composite Index and
Taiwan’s Taiex gauge led the gains in the major Asian
benchmarks. China,Hong Kong, South Korea and Taiwan were among
the markets closed yesterday for a holiday. Trading volumes in
Japan and Hong Kong were at least 2 percent lower than the 30-
day average, while those in China were 41 percent above,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg News.
Brambles Ltd. (BXB), the world’s biggest supplier of wooden
pallets, rallied 2.5 percent in Sydney after reaffirming its
profit forecast for 2012.APA Group (APA), whose pipelines carry more
than half of Australia’s natural gas, dropped 5.4 percent after
its largest shareholder, Petroliam Nasional Bhd., sold its
entire stake in the company.
HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics said China’s
Purchasing Managers’ Index for April rose to 49.3 from 48.3 the
previous month, above the preliminary reading of 49.1. The PMI
from the statistics bureau and logistics federation yesterday
signaled the strongest expansion since March 2011.
In the U.S., the Institute for Supply Management’s index of
manufacturing rose to 54.8 in April, the highest since June,
from 53.4 a month earlier. Readings above 50 signal growth.
Federal ReserveBank of Richmond PresidentJeffrey Lackersaid yesterday that more monetary stimulus risks stoking
inflation while doing little to strengthen the recovery. The San
Francisco Fed’s John Williams said the outlook he expects
doesn’t warrant more bond buying, and Atlanta’sDennis Lockhartrepeated that he’s skeptical of the benefits of such action.
“The combination of the commentary from Fed governors and
the stronger-than-expected data asks the question, ‘Should we be
putting more weight on the recovery in the U.S. economy,’”Robert Rennie, chief currency strategist in Sydney at Westpac
Banking Corp., Australia’s second-largest lender. “That is
something that clearly should be supporting the U.S. dollar.”
The dollar strengthened to 80.35 yen and added 0.1 percent
to 1.3223 per euro. The won touched 1,125.30 per dollar, the
strongest since April 3. The yen dropped 0.3 percent to 106.28
against the euro.
The cost of insuring Asia-Pacific corporate and sovereign
bonds from default decreased, according to traders of credit-
default swaps. TheMarkit iTraxx Australia indexslid 3.5 basis
points to 153 basis points, according to Westpac Banking Corp.
The gauge is set for its lowest close since April 6, according
to data provider CMA.
Theyuanclimbed the most in two weeks before talks between
U.S. Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner and officials led by
Chinese Vice PremierWang Qishanin Beijing tomorrow that will
probably include discussion of whether the currency is
undervalued.
The currency advanced 0.14 percent, the most since April
17, to 6.3011 per dollar, according to the China Foreign
Exchange Trade System. The People’s Bank of China raised thefixing0.19 percent to 6.2670 per dollar today, the strongest
level since a peg ended in July 2005 and 0.7 percent stronger
than last week’s closing price.
Oil for June dropped 0.2 percent to $105.90 a barrel on theNew YorkMercantile Exchange. The contract advanced 1.2 percent
to $106.16 yesterday, the highest close since March 27.
To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariko Ishikawa inTokyoatmishikawa9@bloomberg.netAdam Haigh in Sydney atahaigh1@bloomberg.net
To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jim Poole

