Standard Chartered Revenue Grew 'High Single Digit' Rate
Accessibility links
Wednesday 02 May 2012
By Telegraph staff and agencies
3:57PM BST 01 May 2012
Comments
The Institute for Supply Management said its index of national factory 
  activity rose to 54.8 in April from 53.4 in March. The reading was the 
  highest since June and well above the 50 mark that divides growth from 
  contraction.
New orders climbed to 58.2 from 54.5, while the employment index also improved 
  to 57.3 from 56.1.
Stock markets in the US turned positive on the news. The Dow Jones industrial 
  average rose 0.6pc to 13,294 points, while the S&P 500 added 0.9pc to 
  1,409.77 points.
Economists said that the survey data provided more signs that the US recovery 
  had not lost momentum. Paul Dales, senior US economist at Capital Economics, 
  said:
"This survey will ease concerns that the softer tone of the incoming news 
  in recent months marked the start of a renewed slowdown in growth similar to 
  the one seen last year. We think the latest recovery is made of sterner 
  stuff, although we doubt it will set the world alight."
China manufacturing touches 13-month high in April
Hollande spending spree would cause Euro backlash
China economy to overtake United States in five years
Growth fears as UK manufacturing slows sharply
UK manufacturing growth drops: reaction
Many respondents to the ISM survey said that they remained upbeat about 
  business conditions, although a few said that "European issues keep 
  coming up," and that "some of the early gains may be temporary".
A key jobs report on Friday is expected to show that the US unemployment rate 
  held steady at 8.2pc in April, with payroll growth of about 165,000 jobs.
Data last week showed that the US economy expanded by 2.2pc in the first three 
  months of the year. This was down from the 3pc growth rate notched up during 
  the final three months of 2011 as positive consumer sentiment was weighed 
  down by flat corporate investment.
In Economics
FINANCIAL GUIDES
LATEST TRAVEL DEALS  »
More Offers
Finance Most Viewed
Offers from Amazon
MORE FROM TELEGRAPH.CO.UK
Back to top
Hot Topics
© Copyright of Telegraph Media Group Limited 2012
Terms and Conditions
Today's News
Archive
Style Book
Weather Forecast
