Citi taps Freddie Mac executive for mortgage unit: source
Following is the text of the U.S.
manufacturing conditions from the Institute for Supply
Management.
April Manufacturing ISM Report On Business; PMI at 54.8%;
New Orders, Production and Employment Growing; Supplier
Deliveries Faster;
DO NOT CONFUSE THIS NATIONAL REPORT with the various
regional purchasing reports released across the country. The
national report’s information reflects the entireUnited States,
while the regional reports contain primarily regional data from
their local vicinities. Also, the information in the regional
reports is not used in calculating the results of the national
report. The information compiled in this report is for the month
of April 2012.
Economic activity in the manufacturing sector expanded in
April for the 33rd consecutive month, and the overall economy
grew for the 35th consecutive month, say the nation’s supply
executives in the latest Manufacturing ISM Report On Business.
The report was issued today by Bradley J. Holcomb, CPSM,
CPSD, chair of the Institute for Supply Management Manufacturing
Business Survey Committee. “The PMI registered 54.8 percent, an
increase of 1.4 percentage points from March’s reading of 53.4
percent, indicating expansion in the manufacturing sector for
the 33rd consecutive month. Sixteen of the 18 industries
reflected overall growth in April, and the New Orders,
Production and Employment Indexes all increased, indicating
growth at faster rates than in March. The Prices Index for raw
materials remained at 61 percent in April, the same rate as
reported in March. Comments from the panel generally indicate
stable to strong demand, with some concerns cited over
increasing oil prices and European stability.”
Of the 18 manufacturing industries, 16 are reporting growth
in April, in the following order: Furniture & Related Products;
Printing & Related Support Activities; Machinery; Nonmetallic
Mineral Products; Miscellaneous Manufacturing; Primary Metals;
Paper Products; Transportation Equipment;Electrical Equipment,
Appliances & Components; Plastics & Rubber Products; Apparel,
Leather & Allied Products; Food, Beverage & Tobacco Products;
Chemical Products; Fabricated Metal Products; Computer &
Electronic Products; and Petroleum & Coal Products. The only
industry reporting contraction in April is Wood Products.
“We expect our production levels to remain at the current
level or increase over the next quarter.” (Chemical Products)
“In general, demand remains strong for products, and we [are
experiencing] more supply disruptions now than four to five
months ago.” (Machinery) “The economy was off to a good start
through the first quarter, but the European issues keep coming
up as well as the recent disappointing jobs report. It appears
that some of the early gains may be temporary.” (Fabricated
Metal Products) “Warm weather in Midwest appears to have helped
soft drink sales.” (Food, Beverage & Tobacco Products) “Positive
increase in volume of sales and orders, and slight uptick in
inventories, indicate the overall outlook remains robust through
summer at least.” (Miscellaneous Manufacturing) “Sales are
slowing.” (Computer & Electronic Products) “Business conditions
on a national scale have a very positive outlook for the
commercial metals we provide. At this point, we have
outperformed each quarter’s goal and anticipate a strong
finish.” (Primary Metals) “Strong demand [compared to] previous
year.” (Plastics & Rubber Products) “Business indicators suggest
a stronger stability in overall environment. Production and
orders are stable.” (Transportation Equipment) “Business
conditions continue to improve.” (Furniture & Related Products)
COMMODITIES REPORTED UP/DOWN IN PRICE and IN SHORT SUPPLY
Commodities Up in Price
Alloys; Aluminum Products (3); Fabricated Metal Parts;
Ferro Alloys; #2 Fuel Oil; Gasoline (2); HDPE (2); Lumber (2);
Machined Metal Parts; Motors; Oil (2); Oil Related Products;
Plastic Components (2); Plastic Resins (3); Polypropylene (3);
Propylene; Rubber Products (2); Steel -- Hot Rolled; Steel Based
Products; Soybean Oil; Titanium Dioxide; and Transportation
Costs.
Natural Gas(9); and Steel (2).
No commodities are reported in short supply.
Note: The number of consecutive months the commodity is listed
is indicated after each item.
Manufacturing continued its growth in April as the PMI
registered 54.8 percent, an increase of 1.4 percentage points
when compared to March’s reading of 53.4 percent. A reading
above 50 percent indicates that the manufacturing economy is
generally expanding; below 50 percent indicates that it is
generally contracting.
A PMI in excess of 42.6 percent, over a period of time,
generally indicates an expansion of the overall economy.
Therefore, the PMI indicates growth for the 35th consecutive
month in the overall economy, as well as expansion in the
manufacturing sector for the 33rd consecutive month. Holcomb
stated, “The past relationship between the PMI and the overall
economy indicates that the average PMI for January through April
(53.7 percent) corresponds to a 3.8 percent increase in real
gross domestic product (GDP). In addition, if the PMI for April
(54.8 percent) is annualized, it corresponds to a 4.1 percent
increase in real GDP annually.”
ISM’s New Orders Index registered 58.2 percent in April,
which is an increase of 3.7 percentage points when compared to
the March reading of 54.5 percent. This represents a
continuation of growth for the 36th consecutive month, and at a
faster rate than in March. A New Orders Index above 52.3
percent, over time, is generally consistent with an increase in
the Census Bureau’s series on manufacturing orders (in constant
2000 dollars).
The 15 industries reporting growth in new orders in April -
- listed in order -- are: Furniture & Related Products; Printing
& Related Support Activities; Paper Products; Machinery; Primary
Metals; Transportation Equipment; Food, Beverage & Tobacco
Products; Apparel, Leather & Allied Products; Chemical Products;
Plastics & Rubber Products; Miscellaneous Manufacturing;
Electrical Equipment, Appliances & Components; Fabricated Metal
Products; Computer & Electronic Products; and Petroleum & Coal
Products. No industries reported a decrease in new orders during
April.
ISM’s Production Index registered 61 percent in April,
which is an increase of 2.7 percentage points when compared to
the 58.3 percent reported in March. This indicates growth for
the 35th consecutive month. An index above 51.2 percent, over
time, is generally consistent with an increase in the Federal
Reserve Board’s Industrial Production figures.
The 15 industries reporting growth in production during the
month of April -- listed in order -- are: Nonmetallic Mineral
Products; Furniture & Related Products; Apparel, Leather &
Allied Products; Printing & Related Support Activities; Paper
Products; Transportation Equipment; Machinery; Miscellaneous
Manufacturing; Chemical Products; Food, Beverage & Tobacco
Products; Primary Metals; Electrical Equipment, Appliances &
Components; Petroleum & Coal Products; Fabricated Metal
Products; and Computer & Electronic Products. No industries
reported a decrease in production during April.
ISM’s Employment Index registered 57.3 percent in April,
which is 1.2 percentage points higher than the 56.1 percent
reported in March. This is the 31st consecutive month of growth
in the Employment Index. An Employment Index above 50.5 percent,
over time, is generally consistent with an increase in the
Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) data on manufacturing
employment.
Of the 18 manufacturing industries, 13 reported growth in
employment in April in the following order: Nonmetallic Mineral
Products; Primary Metals; Plastics & Rubber Products; Machinery;
Furniture & Related Products; Miscellaneous Manufacturing;
Transportation Equipment; Apparel, Leather & Allied Products;
Paper Products; Fabricated Metal Products; Electrical Equipment,
Appliances & Components; Food, Beverage & Tobacco Products; and
Chemical Products. The three industries reporting a decrease in
employment in April are: Computer & Electronic Products;
Petroleum & Coal Products; and Printing & Related Support
Activities.
The delivery performance of suppliers to manufacturing
organizations was faster in April as theSupplier DeliveriesIndex registered 49.2 percent, which is 1.2 percentage points
higher than the 48 percent reported in March. This is the third
consecutive month supplier deliveries have been faster than the
previous month, following 31 consecutive months in which
supplier deliveries slowed. A reading above 50 percent indicates
slower deliveries.
The four industries reporting slower supplier deliveries in
April are: Machinery; Electrical Equipment, Appliances &
Components; Furniture & Related Products; and Transportation
Equipment. The five industries reporting faster deliveries in
April are: Apparel, Leather & Allied Products; Chemical
Products; Food, Beverage & Tobacco Products; Paper Products; and
Fabricated Metal Products. Nine industries reported no change in
supplier deliveries in April compared to March.
The Inventories Index registered 48.5 percent in April,
which is 1.5 percentage points lower than the 50 percent
reported in March. This month’s reading, at 48.5 percent,
indicates that respondents are reporting inventories are
contracting, which has been the case in six out of the last
seven months. An Inventories Index greater than 42.8 percent,
over time, is generally consistent with expansion in theBureau
of Economic Analysis’ (BEA) figures on overall manufacturing
inventories (in chained 2000 dollars).
The eight industries reporting higher inventories in April
-- listed in order -- are: Printing & Related Support
Activities; Miscellaneous Manufacturing; Primary Metals;
Machinery; Food, Beverage & Tobacco Products; Computer &
Electronic Products; Paper Products; and Petroleum & Coal
Products. The six industries reporting decreases in inventories
in April -- listed in order -- are: Nonmetallic Mineral
Products; Transportation Equipment; Apparel, Leather & Allied
Products; Furniture & Related Products; Chemical Products; and
Fabricated Metal Products.
The ISM Customers’ Inventories Index registered 45.5
percent in April, which is 1 percentage point higher than in
March when the index registered 44.5 percent. Customers’
inventories have registered at or below 50 percent for 37
consecutive months. A reading below 50 percent indicates
customers’ inventories are considered too low.
The four manufacturing industries reporting customers’
inventories as being too high during April are: Electrical
Equipment, Appliances & Components; Fabricated Metal Products;
Miscellaneous Manufacturing; and Food, Beverage & Tobacco
Products. The eight industries reporting customers’ inventories
as too low during April -- listed in order -- are: Paper
Products; Computer & Electronic Products; Plastics & Rubber
Products; Petroleum & Coal Products; Machinery; Transportation
Equipment; Furniture & Related Products; and Chemical Products.
The ISM Prices Index registered 61 percent in April, the
same rate as reported in March. This is the fourth consecutive
month the index has reflected an increase in the price of raw
materials since September 2011, when the index registered 56
percent. In April, 33 percent of respondents reported paying
higher prices, 11 percent reported paying lower prices and 56
percent of supply executives reported paying the same prices as
in March. A Prices Index above 49.4 percent, over time, is
generally consistent with an increase in the Bureau of Labor
Statistics (BLS) Index of Manufacturers Prices.
Of the 18 manufacturing industries, 13 industries report
paying increased prices during the month of April in the
following order: Furniture & Related Products; Plastics & Rubber
Products; Nonmetallic Mineral Products; Paper Products; Chemical
Products; Apparel, Leather & Allied Products; Machinery;
Miscellaneous Manufacturing; Computer & Electronic Products;
Petroleum & Coal Products; Food, Beverage & Tobacco Products;
Fabricated Metal Products; and Electrical Equipment, Appliances
& Components. The only industry reporting paying lower prices on
average during the month of April is Transportation Equipment.
ISM’s Backlog of Orders Index registered 49.5 percent in
April, which is 3 percentage points lower than the 52.5 percent
reported in March. Of the 81 percent of respondents who reported
their backlog of orders, 22 percent reported greater backlogs,
23 percent reported smaller backlogs, and 55 percent reported no
change from March.
The five industries reporting increased order backlogs in
April are: Furniture & Related Products; Plastics & Rubber
Products; Paper Products; Primary Metals; and Transportation
Equipment. The 10 industries reporting decreases in order
backlogs during April -- listed in order -- are: Nonmetallic
Mineral Products; Wood Products; Petroleum & Coal Products;
Food, Beverage & Tobacco Products; Fabricated Metal Products;
Electrical Equipment, Appliances & Components; Computer &
Electronic Products; Machinery; Chemical Products; and Apparel,
Leather & Allied Products.
ISM’s New Export Orders Index registered 59 percent in
April, which is 5 percentage points higher than the 54 percent
reported in March. The New Export Orders Index has registered 50
percent or above for the past 34 consecutive months.
The 12 industries reporting growth in new export orders in
April -- listed in order -- are: Textile Mills; Furniture &
Related Products; Apparel, Leather & Allied Products; Primary
Metals; Chemical Products; Paper Products; Transportation
Equipment; Food, Beverage & Tobacco Products; Machinery;
Miscellaneous Manufacturing; Fabricated Metal Products; and
Computer & Electronic Products. The two industries reporting a
decrease in new export orders during April are: Nonmetallic
Mineral Products; and Electrical Equipment, Appliances &
Components.
ISM’s Imports Index registered 53.5 percent in April, the
same rate as reported in March. The Imports Index reflects five
consecutive months of growth after only two months of
contraction in the past 32 months.
The eight industries reporting growth in imports during the
month of April -- listed in order -- are: Nonmetallic Mineral
Products; Furniture & Related Products; Transportation
Equipment; Paper Products; Machinery; Food, Beverage & Tobacco
Products; Electrical Equipment, Appliances & Components; and
Fabricated Metal Products. The three industries reporting a
decrease in imports during April are: Petroleum & Coal Products;
Computer & Electronic Products; and Chemical Products. Seven
industries reported no change in imports in April compared to
March.
(b) The Inventories, Customers’ Inventories, Prices, Backlog of
Orders, New Export Orders and Imports Indexes do not meet the
accepted criteria for seasonal adjustments.
Average commitment lead time forCapital Expendituresincreased 2 days to 120 days. Average lead time for Production
Materials decreased 1 day to 55 days. Average lead time for
Maintenance, Repair and Operating (MRO) Supplies decreased 4
days to 26 days.
The data presented herein is obtained from a survey of
manufacturing supply managers based on information they have
collected within their respective organizations. ISM makes no
representation, other than that stated within this release,
regarding the individual company data collection procedures. Use
of the data is in the public domain and should be compared to
all other economic data sources when used in decision-making.
The Manufacturing ISM Report On Business is based on data
compiled from purchasing and supply executives nationwide.
Membership of the Manufacturing Business Survey Committee is
diversified by NAICS, based on each industry’s contribution to
gross domestic product (GDP). Manufacturing Business Survey
Committee responses are divided into the following NAICS code
categories: Food, Beverage & Tobacco Products; Textile Mills;
Apparel, Leather & Allied Products; Wood Products; Paper
Products; Printing & Related Support Activities; Petroleum &
Coal Products; Chemical Products; Plastics & Rubber Products;
Nonmetallic Mineral Products; Primary Metals; Fabricated Metal
Products; Machinery; Computer & Electronic Products; Electrical
Equipment, Appliances & Components; Transportation Equipment;
Furniture & Related Products; and Miscellaneous Manufacturing
(products such as medical equipment and supplies, jewelry,
sporting goods, toys and office supplies).
Survey responses reflect the change, if any, in the current
month compared to the previous month. For each of the indicators
measured (New Orders, Backlog of Orders, New Export Orders,
Imports, Production, Supplier Deliveries, Inventories,
Customers’ Inventories, Employment and Prices), this report
shows the percentage reporting each response, the net difference
between the number of responses in the positive economic
direction (higher, better and slower for Supplier Deliveries)
and the negative economic direction (lower, worse and faster for
Supplier Deliveries), and the diffusion index. Responses are raw
data and are never changed. The diffusion index includes the
percent of positive responses plus one-half of those responding
the same (considered positive).
The resulting single index number for those meeting the
criteria for seasonal adjustments (PMI, New Orders, Production,
Employment and Supplier Deliveries) is then seasonally adjusted
to allow for the effects of repetitive intra-year variations
resulting primarily from normal differences in weather
conditions, various institutional arrangements, and differences
attributable to non-moveable holidays. All seasonal adjustment
factors are supplied by the U.S. Department of Commerce and are
subject annually to relatively minor changes when conditions
warrant them. The PMI is a composite index based on the
diffusion indexes of five of the indexes with equal weights: New
Orders (seasonally adjusted), Production (seasonally adjusted),
Employment (seasonally adjusted), Supplier Deliveries
(seasonally adjusted), and Inventories.
Diffusion indexes have the properties of leading indicators
and are convenient summary measures showing the prevailing
direction of change and the scope of change. A PMI reading above
50 percent indicates that the manufacturing economy is generally
expanding; below 50 percent indicates that it is generally
declining. A PMI in excess of 42.6 percent, over a period of
time, indicates that the overall economy, or gross domestic
product (GDP), is generally expanding; below 42.6 percent, it is
generally declining. The distance from 50 percent or 42.6
percent is indicative of the strength of the expansion or
decline. With some of the indicators within this report, ISM has
indicated the departure point between expansion and decline of
comparable government series, as determined by regression
analysis.
The Manufacturing ISM Report On Business surveys are sent
out to Manufacturing Business Survey Committee respondents the
first part of each month. Respondents are asked to ONLY report
on information for the current month. ISM receives survey
responses throughout most of any given month, with the majority
of respondents generally waiting until late in the month to
submit responses in order to give the most accurate picture of
current business activity. ISM then compiles the reports for
release on the first business day of the following month.
The industries reporting growth, as indicated in the
Manufacturing ISM Report On Business monthly reports, are listed
in the order of most growth to least growth. For the industries
reporting contraction or decreases, those are listed in the
order of the highest level of contraction/decrease to the least
level of contraction/decrease.
Responses to Buying Policy reflect the percent reporting
the current month’s lead time, the approximate weighted number
of days ahead for which commitments are made for Production
Materials; Capital Expenditures; and Maintenance, Repair and
Operating (MRO) Supplies, expressed as hand-to-mouth (five
days), 30 days, 60 days, 90 days, six months (180 days), a year
or more (360 days), and the weighted average number of days.
These responses are raw data, never revised, and not seasonally
adjusted since there is no significant seasonal pattern.
The Manufacturing ISM Report On Business is published
monthly by theInstitute for Supply Management. The Institute
for Supply Management, established in 1915, is the largest
supply management organization in the world as well as one of
the most respected. ISM’s mission is to lead the supply
management profession through its standards of excellence,
research, promotional activities and education. This report has
been issued by the association since 1931, except for a four-
year interruption during World War II.
The full text version of the Manufacturing ISM Report On
Business is posted on ISM’s Web site at www.ism.ws on the first
business day of every month after 10:10 a.m. (ET).
The next Manufacturing ISM Report On Business featuring the
May 2012 data will be released at 10:00 a.m. (ET) on Friday,
June 1, 2012.
SOURCE: Institute for Supply Managementhttp://www.ism.ws

