Lil Wayne signed $150 million deal?
Apr 29, 2012
Written by:Dee Pilgrim
It’s the first of this season’s big-tent box office sensations (taking a massive£2.5 million in the UK on its opening day), boasting no fewer than five superheroes alongside one super baddie, but is Avengers Assemble awesome, or simply average?
In a way, AA is the next natural progression of the superhero movie – we’ve had them fighting for justice as single entities for so long, it was about time they gathered together to kick ass collectively. What this allows cult directorJoss Whedonto do is to make everything bigger, louder, more explosive, more special effects driven… basically just more. This movie most definitely is not shy, retiring or discreet. It’s also not short, with a running time of 2 hours 20 minutes.

So, for the first time gathered together on one screen, we get wise-cracking Ironman (Robert Downey Jr. on his usual great form); upright, old-fashioned good guy Captain America (Chris Evans); the hammer-wielding god (but still classed as a superhero) Thor (Chris Hemsworth); sultry super spy Black Widow (Scarlett Johansson); and the mild-mannered Dr Banner and his alter-ego the Incredible Hulk (Mark Ruffalo). They are ‘assembled’ by director of security organisation SHIELD Nick Fury (Samuel L. Jackson) to combat Thor’s brother (well, adopted brother)Loki(Tom Hiddleston) who has a chip the size of a planet on his shoulder (Thor was the favourite) and wants to take it out on us poor earthlings.
It takes some time to get this ragtag bunch of heavy-hitters together, and there are few bouts of “my superpowers are better than yours” fisticuffs before they all end up in the same place on SHIELD’s floating mega-ship (nicely realised). Even here, they still can’t play nicely, bitching and squabbling until Loki escapes from their clutches and they realise they better start working together or they’re all going to look like losers.
This is when everything gets very, very big, with a massive battle above the streets of  New York. There are bangs, booms, whams, slams and enough destruction to have little boys bouncing up and down in their seats with extreme excitement. As far as superhero movies go this is the big daddy of them all, setting the benchmark for all that will come after it (and believe me, there will most definitely be a sequel).
But is it any good?  The action is up there on screen, the special effects are seamless and there are some nice comic touches (The Hulk punching Thor just for the heck of it is quite entertaining), but there is no complexity to any of the characters; no sense of hidden, tortured depths as withChristopher Nolan’s Dark Knight. But in the end, it doesn’t really matter – it is what it is, a film taken from a comic book – and even those of us who may wish for slightly more nuance and subtlety can enjoy a good rumble when we see one.

Dee always knew she wanted to make her living from writing and so trained as a journalist before working for a variety of music and women’s titles including Sounds, Company, Cosmopolitan, Ms London, New Woman, and Girl About Town.
After going freelance she concentrated on celebrity interviews and film, theatre, music and restaurant reviews.  Her love of film goes back to her very first cinema experience at the age of five when her mother took her to see Bambi.
She cried. At one time she was the Film Editor for NOW magazine and also the secretary for the film section of the Critics’ Circle and the celebrity coordinator for its annual film awards’ event.  She has written a number of books for teenagers through Trotman Publishing, including five Real Life Guides to vocational careers (including Carpentry, Plumbing and Catering), and also three books on Real Life Issues (Money, Bereavement and Self Harm).
Her favourite film is still Bladerunner.
Read more posts byDee Pilgrim






Notify me of follow-up comments by email.
Notify me of new posts by email.
Sorry, Twitter stream is currently unavailable.
Follow @thevoidwebsite
WWE needs to unify the major championship titles because one of them doesn't really exist.
Holding...
WrestleMania XIX made John Cena who he is, despite the fact that Cena wasn’t even on...
The future is here, and John Roy hates it.
Tap tap tap tap tap tap tap....
Welcome to the newest column on The Void, The Raw Report.
Every week I’ll be dissecting...
As summer approaches, so does festival season. And with festival season comes crazy, fun-packed long...
The Void has news, reviews and features about all aspects of popular culture. With writers who specialise in films, games, theatre and more, we've probably got what you're looking for.
If you want to join the team, or are interested in advertising, then please get in touch.We'd love to hear from you.
Follow @thevoidwebsite

