Sarah Kwak: Devils overcome Kovalchuk's absence, pull even with Flyers
Home|Media Kit|Sign up for breaking news email alerts|Photo Galleries
END FREEFORM RENDER, ID 4225682
LOS ANGELES — When the Nuggets play at the Lakers in L.A., it's often as if Denver is just holding on for dear life. It seldom feels like Denver is controlling the game, its tempo and its momentum. Sure, the Nuggets will make some runs and make the courtside celebs peek up from their smartphones. But only then, Andrew Bynum will get some super-easy dunk or Kobe will hit a 3 and all will be back to status quo in La La Land.
They Nuggets stuck around late in the fourth quarter on Tuesday, but lost Game 2, 104-100, to go down 0-2 against L.A. in the first round of the playoffs.
Kobe was Kobe. The Lakers luminary was locked in. Taking advantage of single-coverage by Arron Afflalo, Danilo Gallinari or Corey Brewer, Kobe Bryant scored 38 points on 15-for-29 shooting. He shot jumpers with an arrogance. With fresh legs (playing in just his second game in 10 days), Bryant overwhelmed Denver with his crossovers or stutter-steps or, on occasion, twirling, swirling spins into the lane for a layup. In the first quarter, he was 6-for-8, good for 14 points. By the half, Bryant had 21 (on 9-for-12). And after the third quarter — in which he even hit a Dirk-like jumper, falling back while jumping off just one leg — he had 33 (14-for-22).
During the day off, there was much talk about Denver's backcourt being more aggressive. Well, it was. One could sense, early on, that Ty Lawson and Arron Afflalo were trying to make an impact. But Afflalo, the L.A. native, just couldn't get in the rhythm that made him such a weapon, notably in the stretch run of April. Afflalo shot just 4-for-12 for the night, missing all five 3-point attempts. He had 11 points and spent the home stretch sitting on the bench, watching Brewer play.
As for Lawson, he made more of an impact, with both the shot and the pass. Lawson scored a team-high 25 points on 11-for-17 shooting. And heading into Game 2, the Nuggets talked about moving without the ball, to provideDenver NuggetsViewslide show of Nuggets-Lakers game May 1.Seeall the Nuggets photos this season.Scanremaining Nuggets schedule.Findanalysis, notes and buzz on the Nuggets Ink blog.FollowBenjamin Hochman on Twitter for Nuggets and NBA updates @NuggetsNews.Evaluatethe latest team numbers on the Nuggets Stats Page.FollowChris Dempsey on Twitter for updates on pro hoops and college sports @DempseyPost.AskBenjamin Hochman about the team or NBA in Nuggets Mailbag.Postphotos of your team spirit.an outlet for the dribblers in the paint. Denver did so and Lawson utilized this weapon at times, finishing with seven assists (Andre Miller had eight).
For all of Andrew Bynum's dominance in Game 1 (a triple-double featuring 10 blocks), the dude only had 13 points. Well, on Tuesday, he had a career playoff-high of 24 points — by the end of the third quarter. His footwork and positioning — not to mention the fact that he's just enormous — led to just a whole bunch of dunks. Denver double-teamed him often, but could seldom keep him from making an impact play. He finished with 27 points and nine rebounds for L.A.
Before the series began, Nuggets coach George Karl sat at the Nuggets practice and answered a question about Kobe. His words defined Game 2: "I think with the special players in basketball, not a lot of people talk about their will to win the game. Kobe at times can have bad games, Kobe at times can kind of be selfish, but his will to win the game is pretty powerful. In the fourth quarter, he thinks he can overcome anything. He thinks he can overcome a double-team or the best defensive team. The shots he made in that Oklahoma City game? Come on, man. What are you supposed to do? Other than say, 'OK, he did it again.' He's just a winner. I think people would talk more about winning players than talented players."
Benjamin Hochman: 303-954-1294 orbhochman@denverpost.com



Is your comment not appearing on the article?Read this.
Comment:


All contents Copyright 2012 The Denver Post or other copyright holders. All rights reserved.This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed for any commercial purpose.
Advertise / Media Kit|Archives|Careers|Contact Us|Ethics Policy|E-mail Alerts|Mobile|Privacy Policy|Web Feeds|RSS|My Yahoo|Repurposing Denver Post content - Guidelines|Site Map|Home Delivery|Terms of Use
Our other sites:Viva Colorado|Boulder Daily Camera|Boulder's Colorado Daily|Broomfield Enterprise|Sterling Colorado Journal-AdvocateEstes Park Trail-Gazette|The Lamar Ledger|The Fort Morgan Times|Brush (Colorado) News-Tribune
