UPDATE 1-Baseball-Nationals offense stays lifeless in loss to Arizona
More Games »
Explore news, videos, and much more based on what your friends are reading and watching. Publish your own activity and retain full control.
ByDan Devine

Los Angeles Lakers center Andrew Bynum blocked 10 Denver Nuggets shots on Sunday afternoon, a mark that tied an NBA playoff record, secured just the second points-rebounds-blocks triple-double in NBA postseason history, and helped the Lakers score a103-88 victoryin Game 1 of their first-round Western Conference playoff series.
Bynum scored 10 points on 5-of-7 shooting and corralled 13 rebounds to go with the 10 swats, posting the first postseason triple-double by a Laker since June 12, 1991, when Magic Johnson scored 16 points, grabbed 11 rebounds and dished 20 assists in thefifth and final gameof the 1991 NBA Finals, won by the Chicago Bulls.
He is just the third player to post double-figure blocks in a playoff game, joining former Utah Jazz center Mark Eaton, who set the record by blocking 10 shots against the Houston Rockets onApril 26, 1985, and Hall-of-Famer Hakeem Olajuwon, who tied Eaton's mark with 10 blocks against the Lakers onApril 29, 1990. Olajuwon, too, posted a triple-double, scoring 11 points and grabbing 11 rebounds.
[Related:Andrew Bynum, Kobe Bryant lift Lakers past Nuggets in Game 1]
The 24-year-old Lakers center rejected attempts by Ty Lawson, Kenneth Faried and Al Harrington in the first period, then got Lawson again in the second quarter to enter halftime with four blocks. He sent back two Faried tries in the first five minutes of the third quarter, got Harrington again and blocked an Andre Miller attempt to head into the fourth with eight blocks. His ninth block of the game, on a Danilo Gallinari layup attempt at the 6:11 mark of the fourth, tied a Laker playoff record previously held by Kareem Abdul-Jabbar.
Bynum took sole possession of the franchise mark by notching his 10th block with just over three minutes remaining in the fourth quarter, sending back an optimistic lefty hook attempt (termed "kind of a hesitant move" by Bynum in a post-game interview) by Denver center Timofey Mozgov to stake his claim to a piece of NBA history.

Andrew Bynum blocks a Ty Lawson shot. (AP)
After the game, Bynum told ABC sideline reporter Lisa Salters that the Laker bench told him "he needed two more [to get the record], and I was just jumping at everything trying to get it."
[Related:Yahoo! Sports' predictions for the 2012 NBA playoffs]
"You know, it was very big," Bynum said of the accomplishment. "It shows I can do two things out there, offense and defense. Today, I was just being an animal out there on defense and we won by 15. So maybe, you know, note to self: The more I play D, the better we'll be."
Recording 10 or more blocks in a game, while certainly not a regular occurrence, isn't necessarily the rarest accomplishment; it's been done 98 times since the 1985-86 season, according toBasketball-Reference.com's box score research tool. But it's only happened two other times in the playoffs, and while both Eaton and Olajuwon met with defeat in their 10-block playoff games, Bynum's Lakers exit the Staples Center with a 1-0 lead.
The 10-block playoff triple-double is just the latest career milestone in what has been Bynum's most productive season as a pro (and, also, a year at timesfraught with controversy). In his seventh season since being drafted out of high school in 2005 and becoming theyoungest player ever to appear in an NBA game, Bynum averaged a career-high 18.7 points and 11.8 rebounds per game, earned his first All-Star selection and became one of just nine players since '85-'86 tosnare 30 reboundsin a single game. Now, he's got one more achievement to add to his resume.
Original video of Bynum's 10-block performance vianbainfos.
Related NBA playoffs video on Yahoo! Sports
Other popular content on the Yahoo! network:•Nike shoe designer mocks Derrick Rose's injury•Kevin Iole: Bernard Hopkins remains a riddle, even in defeat•Dale Earnhardt Jr.'s streak lives on, but he's got reason to smile•Shine slideshow: William and Kate celebrate one-year wedding anniversary
Bynum's triple-double leads Lakers past  …
The Associated Press
Andrew Bynumand Los Angeles Lakers Will …
Los Angeles Lakers' centerAndrew Bynumis just one of two players that the Lakers …Full Story »Andrew Bynum and Los Angeles Lakers Will Try to Impair Denver Nuggets: Fan Preview
Yahoo! Contributor Network via Yahoo! Sports
Nuggets-Lakers Preview
The Associated Press
Andrew Bynumreaches new heights with La …
Andrew Bynum's record-tying game again proves that when he's engaged, he's …Full Story »Andrew Bynum reaches new heights with Lakers
Yahoo! Sports via Yahoo! Sports
Baby with inspiring 'bucket list' dies
What is going on in this picture?
Story behind sultry Marilyn Monroe photos
'We met in a dimly lit parking lot ...'
Kelly Dwyer is a Basketball blogger for Yahoo! Sports.
Eric Freeman,Dan Devine,Jim Weber,Jared Dudley,Kristian Dyer
