Angels' Jerome Williams shuts down Twins in 4-0 win
Andrew Bynum blocks Denver's Kenneth Faried (l.) for one of his record 10 blocked shots.
LOS ANGELES - A day beforeAndrew Bynumproduced one of the most eye-popping defensive performances in NBA playoff history, he spoke up to his Lakers teammates about the importance of getting off to a good start in their championship quest.
With an NBA record-tying 10 blocked shots, the 7-foot All-Star center put the Lakers on the good foot - and the Denver Nuggets on their heels.
Kobe Bryant scored 31 points, Bynum posted the Lakers' first playoff triple-double in 21 years, and Los Angeles thoroughly controlled the tempo in a playoff-opening 103-88 victory Sunday.
Despite a few well-chronicled fluctuations in his motivation and discipline this year, the seventh-year pro had perfect focus in Game 1, capping his utter dominance in the paint with his record-tying block ofTimofey Mozgovwith 3:02 to play. Bynum also had 10 points and 13 rebounds before checking out to an ovation.
"It's the only way really possible for me to get a triple-double - through blocked shots," Bynum said of his first career triple-double. "If I play good D, we'll win games. I think I'm just going to be as aggressively as I can defensively to contest their shots. ... You've got to win Game 1. Statistics are against the teams that lose Game 1, especially on the home court."
Game 2 is Tuesday night.
Just how dominant were Bynum and his tall teammates against the NBA's highest-scoring team? Bynum blocked 11 percent of the Nuggets' 90 shots, and with 15 total blocks, Lakers swatted one of every six Denver shots, separating the Nuggets from any hope of a late rally.
"His timing was impeccable today," Bryant said of Bynum. "He really understood the rhythm of their offensive players. He was just there at the exact moment, either to change or block the shot."
While Bynum had the Lakers' first playoff triple-double sinceMagic Johnsonin the 1991 NBA finals, fellow 7-footerPau Gasoladded 13 points, eight rebounds and eight assists for the playoff-tested Lakers, who never trailed while forcing Denver to play Los Angeles' preferred half-court style.
Bynum blocked eight shots in the first three quarters before surpassingKareem Abdul-Jabbar's franchise-record nine blocks in the fourth. He eventually equaled the NBA record set by Utah'sMark Eatonon April 26, 1985, and matched byHall of Famer Hakeem Olajuwonon April 29, 1990.
"We've got to find a way to score before he gets in the paint, because he's impressive," saidDanilo Gallinari, who led Denver with 19 points.

Own a piece of therise of Knicks sensation Jeremy Lin.CLICK HERE TO ORDER »
Talk Blueshirts with Pat Leonard before Game 3 of Rangers-Capitals Wednesday at 1 p.m.
All we know is that before Linsanity and Melo, Stoudemire was The Man around here.
Will find out if he suffered ligament or tendon damage after punching a pane of glass.
Following a loss in Miami, Stoudemire punched a glass case and left with his arm in a sling.
Things got a lot more interesting Tuesday when prosecutors called Pettitte to the stand.
From bad to worse: Stoudemire punched a glass case holding a fire extinguisher.
Ovechkin imposed his will on Game 2, netting the game-winning goal to give Caps a split.
Check out some of the lamest injuries in sports history, now including Amar'e Stoudemire.
For the first time since 1957, professional sports are back in the Borough of Kings.
In honor of the Knicks' return to the postseason, we here at The Score kick up our heels in celebration.
The Daily News has all the legendary Knicks including Walt, Willis, Patrick and more. Get in-game action and behind-the-scenes.Order Print »
