Final: Angels 4, Twins 0
Ryan McNeill| 
April 30, 2012, 12:02 pm
Twitter@ryanmcneill
For the majority ofKobe Bryant's time in Los Angeles, the success, or lack of success, of each Lakers season has been measured by whether the team won an NBA Championship. The rabid fan base that follows the team doesn't care if the team wins more than 50 games, rather, if they fail to hoist the Larry O'Brien trophy.
It was clear back in February that Lakers coach Mike Brown was already looking ahead to the NBA Playoffs.
"I believe this team is built for a seven-game playoff series," Brown boasted. "The regular season is a little tougher for this team because we're not an up-and-down, athletic, easy-baskets kind of team that can just go out and play. We rely on execution and discipline and defense and half court sets. All of that stuff comes into play, in my opinion, later in the year."
Traditionally, a big part of Los Angeles playing the right way is having the ball go through the hands of Bryant,Andrew BynumandPau Gasolon offence. For that to happen, it means the Lakers need to slow down the pace of the game and run their half-court sets to allow the offence to go through their bigs.
While that's a great strategy on paper, the problem is, the Lakers didn't go to Bynum or Gasol often enough Sunday afternoon due to Denver being relentless in throwing double and triple teams at the Lakers' big men.
Bynum played all 12 minutes in the first quarter but he failed to attempt a field goal. He only had three field goal attempts at halftime. It's not like Bynum was fading into the background heading into the half as he had a game-high nine rebounds and had swatted away four shots; rather it was a case ofKobe Bryant(10 field goal attempts),Devin Ebanks(six) andSteve Blake(six) getting the majority of the touches on offence.
Los Angeles' other twin tower, Gasol, only had four field-goal attempts in the first half.
"We know Denver is doubling and they are going to double-team us from all over the place,"Brown explained after the win."They are doubling quick and they are doubling hard. We have to make sure we space the floor well and we move the ball at the right time without turning it over. We need to make the easy pass to the open guy and let him make the assist because we know those double-teams are coming."
Los Angeles seemed to be struggling early in the game as Bryant couldn't find a groove and the team couldn't feed their big men in the post.
The Lakers were lucky to get some big plays fromDevin EbanksandSteve Blakein the first half. That carried into the second half asJordan HillandRamon Sessionsleft their mark on the game in different ways.
"You have to sometimes force the game upon them and just almost force feed them,"Bryant admitted."You sometimes need to literally disappear. It's very easy sometimes when a player has a lot of talent to want to do everything, but that's not going to get it done. You have to have everybody on the floor feel comfortable that they can make decisions. In turn that makes us a better team."
Over the past few seasons, the Lakers offence had become predictable in that they would feed their big men, Bryant would fire away and everybody else would be left fighting for the scraps, which is why Denver was aggressive in taking Gasol and Bynum out of the game. However, if opponents take the ball out of the hands of the talented inside duo while forcing Bryant into a poor shooting night yet still lose by 25 points, it's clear the Lakers have become a more-balanced team and stopping them has become that much tougher.
That is sure to make Lakers' fans grin from ear-to-ear as the Lakers will prove to be a tough out this year in the playoffs.

Paul Jones| Twitter@Paul__Jones
There are many cliches associated with the playoffs and one of them is the need for discipline: something Stoudemire and Rondo were lacking.
Ryan McNeill| Twitter@ryanmcneill
Back in February, many had written the Lakers off but they looked like a formidable presence in their Game 1 win over Denver.
