Predators' Radulov making wrong kind of news
Jump to main navigationJump to main content
New Jersey Devils' David Clarkson (23) celebrates with teammates Zach Parise (9) and Bryce Salvador after scoring on Philadelphia Flyers goalie Ilya Bryzgalov during the third period in Game 2 of their NHL Eastern Conference semifinal playoff hockey series in Philadelphia, May 1, 2012.
TIM SHAFFER/REUTERS
Adam Larsson and David Clarkson scored their first goals of the post-season, and the New Jersey Devils posted a 4-1 win over the Philadelphia Flyers on Tuesday night, evening this Eastern Conference semifinals series at 1-1.
Larsson and Clarkson scored consecutive goals in the third period to rally the Devils past the Flyers and make up for the absence of Ilya Kovalchuk. The Devils played without their regular-season leading scorer because of a lower body injury.
Travis Zajac added a late goal to make it 3-1, and Bryce Salvador scored a late empty-netter for the Devils.
Game 3 is Thursday in New Jersey.
Matt Read scored 2:53 into the game to give the Flyers hope they could jump to a commanding series lead. Instead, the offence went into a funk and goalie Ilya Bryzgalov couldn't protect the advantage.
Even without Kovalchuk, the Devils did what they wanted against Bryzgalov, taking close shots and dominating the play in the Flyers' zone.
They just couldn't score — until the third.
Bryzgalov, who signed a $51 million, nine-year deal last summer, was especially stout in the second when he bailed out the Flyers offence with a 12-save period. The Flyers went more than 18 minutes in the period before taking a shot on Martin Brodeur.
“I didn't sense frustration. We were comfortable with how we played the first two periods,” Devils coach Peter DeBoer said. “And it was just a matter of keeping it going in the third, and the goals came.”
Bryzgalov had a brutal first five games of the post-season and allowed 20 goals against Pittsburgh. But he shut down the Penguins in the Game 6 clincher — a 5-1 win — and allowed three goals in the Game 1 victory against the Devils.
He appeared to have turned the corner.
Then came the final period.
Kovalchuk's injury opened a roster spot for Larsson, a rookie defenceman, to be activated. Larsson was a first-round pick last year, and is just 19 years old. He had two goals and 18 points in his first NHL season, but had not played a playoff game yet. Larsson's shot from the circle beat Bryzgalov on his glove side early in the third for the tying goal.
“Down a goal, third period, and it was huge,” DeBoer said of the rookie's goal. “I feel great for Larsson. He's been out a few games, and he responded.”
Clarkson made it 2-1 minutes later when he scored off a rebound. The Devils won the faceoff and Zach Parise was stuffed with a pad save. Clarkson then crashed the net to knock in the puck and fly gut-first into the crossbar. He lay on top of the net briefly as his teammates mobbed him.
Bryzgalov slammed his stick in frustration after the goal.
Zajac's fifth goal of the post-season on a backhander made it 3-1 and gave the Devils the insurance goal they needed.
“I really felt we'd respond like this,” DeBoer said. “I knew we'd be better than Game 1. Knew we'd bounce back. We've dealt with adversity and injuries all year. It's nothing new.”
Bryzgalov shook his head and remained motionless on his knees for at least a minute after Zajac's goal. He was still down on one knee for the faceoff before he finally stood up and got his head back into the game.
He clearly wasn't happy about the goals. And he was probably angry with Philadelphia's offensive ineptness, as well.
At the end of the game, Claude Giroux stopped Bryzgalov for a brief chat before he was greeted by the rest of the team. Giroux has emerged as the leader of the team and whatever he was telling the goalie, Bryzgalov seemed to agree with, mostly nodding his head.
Enjoy the convenience of having The Globe and Mail delivered right to your door, your mobile phone and computer. From exclusive content and mobile apps to online tools and loyalty programs, The Globe lets you experience Canada's deepest coverage of national, international, business, and lifestyle news where you want, when you want.
© Copyright 2012 The Globe and Mail Inc. All Rights Reserved.
444 FrontSt.W.,Toronto,ONCanadaM5V 2S9Phillip Crawley, Publisher
© 2012 The Globe and Mail Inc. All Rights Reserved.
You have selected to add:
Please select which watchlist you would like to add to:
