Baltimore Orioles defeat New York Yankees for Manager Buck Showalter's 1000th...
To view this site, you need to have Flash Player 9.0.115 or later installed. Clickhereto get the latest Flash player.
The Flyers let their lead slip away in the third period of their 4-1 Game 2 loss to the Devils. 5/12/12

Lisa Hillary reports on Ilya Brzygalov's best performance of the playoffs and problems on the power play in the Flyers' Game 2 loss. 05/01/12
BOX SCOREAt the morning skate, Danny Briere talked about how the Penguins came up with an enormous effort in Game 4 without three players in their lineup and humiliated the Flyers, 10-3.Well, Pete DeBoer’s Devils gave a truly inspiring performance Tuesday night in Game 2 of the Eastern Conference semifinals without Ilya Kovachuk, pressuring the Flyers and goalie Ilya Bryzgalov without mercy, start to finish.Ultimately, Bryzgalov and the Flyers cracked, getting thumped, 4-1, at Wells Fargo Center. The series is tied 1-1 and moves to Newark, N.J., where the Devils can gain home ice, for Game 3 on Thursday.“We were hoping even after the second period we would be able to somehow steal one because of Bryz,” Briere said. “We completely sat back in the third period. We didn’t even learn from that second period. We left him alone once again.”Bryzgalov (31 saves) was outstanding much of the evening while the Flyers were badly outplayed offensively and out-shot, 35-20.Really, Bryz kept this game from becoming an early blowout as New Jersey pinned the Flyers in their end of the ice, holding them captive for nearly two periods.“They were the better team, no question about it,” Kimmo Timonen said. “When our skating is off, it looks like that. This game is all about skating and speed nowadays. If you don’t have it, you’re gonna be trouble.”Bryzgalov was forced to work with a 1-0 lead much of the game until 3:08 of the third period when Devils defenseman Adam Larsson, making his rookie playoff debut, scored on a brilliant snap-wrister during four-on-four to tie the game.Eight minutes later, David Clarkson converted a rebound to give New Jersey a 2-1 lead. Petr Sykora’s backhand wraparound soon after iced the game as Bryzgalov had no help.“I think it’s all about desperation,” Briere said. “They won, they were first on the puck, they wanted it more. The parity in the league [these] days, there’s not a big difference between teams.“When a team wants it more, usually they get rewarded. If both teams want it, usually it makes for a good game. Tonight that’s why it was so lopsided.“It’s all about the will and desperation and we’ve got to get that back. So far in this series, we’ve only had it for about three periods. There’s no sense in me telling you how good we are.“You guys have seen us all year, you know if we’re good or not. But one thing I can tell you is we need to have more desperation if we want to get back to winning games.”After Game 1’s dreadful first period, Peter Laviolette and his players said Tuesday morning that priority No. 1 was a quick start.Then again, quick starts have been few and far between for the Flyers all season. This time, however, it happened as Marty Brodeur was under siege in the game’s opening minutes. It resulted in Matt Read’s third goal of the playoffs.Read scored from a difficult angle in the right circle, shortside, on Brodeur at 2:53 off a nice feed from Brayden Schenn from behind the Devils’ net.New Jersey quickly got back into the game and actually made a strong push on the Flyers the remainder of the period, out-shooting them, 13-9.This is where Bryzgalov again stood out just as he did in the opening period of Game 1. He denied Zach Parise, Travis Zajac and Calder Trophy rookie finalist Adam Henrique on scoring opportunities in the crease.The period belonged to Bryz. The Russian goalie had one terrific save after another with the Flyers trapped like prisoners in their own end.“They skated well tonight,” Laviolette said. “Their skating was better than ours.”Dainius Zubrus from the left slot. A turnaround through a screen 10 feet from the net by Henrique. A snap wrister from Peter Harrold, who switched from defense to right wing for this game in Kovalchuk’s absence.Though the Flyers began the second period on the power play, ever since the six-day break between series, things have not been going well with the man advantage.The passing hasn’t been sharp, the rotation of players in the zone hasn't been smooth. Give credit to the Devils, too.After scoring 12 power play goals in the Pittsburgh series, the Flyers are a woeful 1 for 11 against the Devils.“Their skating was better to take time and space on the penalty kill quicker than our movement,” Laviolette said. “We have to do things faster on the power play.”While their penalty kill hasn’t been very good during the playoffs, it seems to be more closely resembling the regular season when New Jersey led the NHL with an aggressive attack mode.Remember how New Jersey out-shot the Flyers 11-0 to start Game 1? Well, the Devils topped that with a 12-0 effort in the second period, keeping the Flyers trapped in their own end.With less than two minutes left, it was looking like the Flyers would make history for having failed to get a shot. Then, Claude Giroux forced Brodeur to make a pad save on a slapper from the point.There was a sign behind Brodeur that period in a rocking chair that advised the Devils’ goalie to retire.“In the second, I had so little to do, I felt like sitting in one of those chairs," Brodeur quipped.The Flyers finished the second stanza with just two shots.“It’s wasn’t just the [lack of] offense, it was three zones where they were quicker and more competitive on the puck than we were,” Laviolette said.“It’s a hard way. There are times when a goaltender stands on his head like that and you’re able to squeak one out.“Often times, it doesn’t last or hold up and in the end the results are just based on play. Bryz was phenomenal tonight. But we have to do a better job in front of him.”E-mail Tim Panaccio attpanotch@comcast.net
Related Topics
Hot Topics
