Buck Showalter gets 1000th career victory as his Baltimore Orioles defeat...
Register now for free, or sign in with any of these services:
PHILADELPHIA — For two periods, Ilya Bryzgalov, the high-wire act the Flyers handsomely paid to absolve the franchise of its inglorious goaltending history, was at his best Tuesday night. He was a highlight reel, blanketing the Devils as he withstood a flurry of shots on net. Through 40 minutes and 25 saves, it looked as if Bryzgalov would allow the sputtering Flyers to squeak out a win.
But his brilliance would be left behind in the locker room during the second intermission. The third period did not end well, just as the game did not for the Flyers in a 4-1 Game 2 loss to the Devils.
A mercurial force, Bryzgalov unraveled in the third. He took Philadelphia with him on a night Jaromir Jagr admitted they had no legs. It was the goaltender who was the difference between a blowout early on and their razor-thin 1-0 lead.
The Devils, perhaps conscious that Bryzgalov has a propensity to snowball downward, knew that one goal could lead to several more.
So, 3:08 into the final period, it was Adam Larsson that broke the seal. He shot one past the Philadelphia goaltender, tying the game at 1-1, on a shot from just inside the face-off circle. Eight minutes later it was David Clarkson, depositing a rebound past Bryzgalov. Then Travis Zajac, less than three minutes later, catching the Russian out of position.
“We kept doing what we were doing,” Zach Parise said. “We wanted to play bad angle shots, we wanted to keep throwing stuff at him. We just had a good feeling that if we were going to get one, we were going to get a couple. And we were able to.”
That belief was tested initially as Bryzgalov stood strong. He stopped Adam Henrique three times from point-blank range. The rest of the Devils were also unsuccessful. After being buffeted by four goals in a shaky Game 1 effort, Bryzgalov was returning the favor for his teammates.
“He was unbelievable,” Jagr said. “If he wouldn’t be in the net and make those saves with the defense today, we would probably be down a lot. He gave us a chance to win.”
But he had to walk a tightrope, showing flashes of mortality as the game wore on. Midway through the second a shot skittered across the goal line. The Devils kept pounding him with shots. The margin for error kept shrinking. Finally, the Flyers’ safety net couldn’t hold the weight.
“They were always flying to the net, shooting the puck, getting the rebounds,” Bryzgalov said. “They were just unreal tonight.”
And when he could not maintain his level, the Devils pounced. Three goals on nine shots in the third period, the fourth an empty-netter, and Bryzgalov’s grand stand was no more. Award of his tendency to self-destruct, the Devils knew their belief had outlasted its subject.
“You know that,” Parise said. “He’s a great goalie and regardless, the theme is always the same whether he’s playing well or he’s not playing well, you want to put pucks on him and challenge him. We were able to get one and then we were able to get another one and we kept playing well.”
Mike Vorkunov: mvorkunov@starledger.com
EnlargeLori M. Nichols / Gloucester County TimesFlyers left wing James van Riemsdyk works against Devils goalie Martin Brodeur and defenseman Adam Larrson to try to score a goal in the first period of Game 2 against the New Jersey Devils, May 1, 2012. Van Riemsdyk was called for a slashing penalty during the play. (Staff Photo by Lori M. Nichols/Gloucester County Times)Flyers-Devils Game 2 (Gallery 1), May 1, 2012gallery(33 photos)/* <![CDATA[ */
		embedSlideshow(4641, 10932560, '050112flyersa', '&align=left');
		/* ]]> */

can u say swiss cheese ! if we lose to this overreated team its us beating ourselves. devs in 6
You mustaccept the terms of servicebefore you can post a comment.
Register now for free, or sign in with any of these services:
