Hearing from Matusz, Hardy and Davis
JavaScript disabled.Please enable JavaScript to use My News, My Clippings, My Comments and user settings.
NewfeaturePersonalise your news, save articles to read later and customise settingsView Demo
If you have trouble accessing our login form below, you can go to ourlogin page.
The Sydney Morning Herald
You are here:HomeSportBasketballArticle
Chicago Bulls star Derrick Rose grimaces after hurting his knee in his side's win over the Philadelphia 76ers.Photo: AP
Reigning MVP Derrick Rose will miss the rest of the NBA playoffs after suffering a torn left knee ligament in the final seconds of the Chicago Bulls' first-round series opener against Philadelphia.
Rose, who had missed 27 games this season with various injuries, scored 23 points and grabbed nine rebounds while adding nine assists for the Bulls in their 103-91 home triumph to start the Eastern Conference best-of-seven clash with the 76ers.
But any joy for Chicago was short lived as the club revealed champion point guard Rose had torn an anterior cruciate ligament.
Rose was injured with just 80 seconds remaining and coach Tom Thibodeau was forced to defend his decision to keep Rose on court so late in the game, saying the Bulls had been struggling to finish off the 76ers even with leads of between 15 and 20 points.
"I don't work backwards like you guys. The score was going the other way," Thibodeau said.
"We weren't closing the game out the right way.
"A guy can get hurt any time. You have to deal with it. It's part of the game.
"Whatever the circumstances are we will deal with it."
Rose was injured when he landed hard as he planted for a jump shot and his left knee buckled.
Grimacing as he grabbed his left knee, Rose lay on the court while being examined by a trainer until he was helped up and aided to the locker room.
"I just feel bad for him," Bulls teammate Carlos Boozer said.
"He has been through so much this season. The kid can't catch a break."
Fans briefly chanted "M-V-P" as Rose got up from the court but most of the crowd was shocked.
"At first it's kind of scary for everybody, not just us, the whole city of Chicago," Bulls starter Richard Hamilton said.
Hamilton backed Thibodeau's decision to keep Rose on the court in the final minutes.
"Philly was making a run," Hamilton said.
"In playoff basketball, you never want to give a team confidence. If you have a team down, you have to try to keep them down and keep the starters in the game after they made a little run."
Rose, who was 9-of-23 from the field, missed 12 games through a groin injury and five games each for back, toe and ankle problems.
The Bulls went 18-9 without him and 32-7 with him in the line-up and that time with Rose sidelined has allowed the rest of the roster to have faith in those who would take his place now.
Rose had missed only three games in six years until this season.
The Bulls, who won 50 regular-season games to claim a home-court advantage throughout the NBA playoffs, will host the 76ers in game two of the series on Tuesday.
Hamilton added 19 points for Chicago while Britain's Luol Deng contributed 17 points and Joakim Noah added 12 points and 13 rebounds.
Former Bull Elton Brand led the 76ers with 19 points.
In another Eastern Conference opener, hosts Miami routed the New York Knicks 100-67 behind 32 points from LeBron James. The Knicks had 27 turnovers and matched their lowest one-game points total in playoff history.
AFP
You're the only person reading this now.Tell your friends

Tweet
The Crusaders continued their eight year unbeaten run against the gutsy Waratahs with a 37-33 victory at Allianz Stadium. Photos by Steve Christo. Follow us on http://twitter.com/photosSMH
Each week, Greg Growden picks the form team from the Australian conference after the weekend's matches. Number of times selected in brackets..
Round 8 of the NRL continued in Sydney tonight as the South Sydney Rabbitohs and the North Queensland Cowboys squared off at ANZ Stadium. The Cowboys came into the match off a drubbing of the Sydney Roosters in Darwin whilst the Rabbitohs were coming off a loss to the Warriors in Auckland. With both teams matching up well it was always going to be a tight contest. All pictures by Anthony Johnson. Selected images available from www.fairfaxsyndication.com. Follow us at http://twitter.com/photosSMH.
Rugby League and the Anzac spirit go hand in hand in this yearly match up between the Sydney Roosters and the St George Illawarra Dragons at Allianz Stadium in Sydney. Can the Dragons make it 5 Anzac wins in a row or will the Roosters win their first since 2007? All pictures by Steve Christo. Selected images available from www.fairfaxsyndication.com. Follow us at http://twitter.com/photosSMH.
The New Zealand vs Australia Rugby League test match played at Eden Park in Auckland on April 20th 2012. Australia won 20 - 12. All pictures by Peter Meecham.
Gallery: World of Sport
Gallery: World of Sport
Australian Ice Hockey League round one
Raiders v Sharks
Australian team of the week - round 10
Super Rugby Waratahs v Crusaders at Allianz Stadium
Skip to:
Make the most of the rate cut. Home loans from 6.23% p.a.
Cut Your Rate
Lock it before you lose it. Term deposit rates from 6.01%
Lock Your Rate
0% intro purchase rate for 6 months. Apply by May 31st
Credit Cards
Free 50GB Home Broadband with $89 Timeless mobile plan
Free 50GB Deal
Hot smartphone deals under $40 per month
Compare Mobile Deals
