Source: Knicks' Chandler wins defensive award
Dodgers outfielder Tony Gwynn Jr., left, is congratulated by teammate A.J. Ellis after hitting a two-run home run during the fifth inning of the Dodgers' 7-6 win over the Colorado Rockies on Tuesday.(Doug Pensinger / Getty Images/May1, 2012)
May 1, 2012,9:43 p.m.
Guggenheim Baseball Management, greatest owners in baseball history. Or something like that. Anyway, they are undefeated.
In the first game under the new ownership, theDodgersjumped all over theRockieson Tuesday night and then had to absolutely hang on for a 7-6 victory in Denver that featured three L.A. home runs -- and not one that came fromMatt Kemp.
The taut game was finally turned over to struggling closerJavy Guerrain the ninth inning, who survived a nervous inning to earn his eighth save.
Kemp had 12 of the Dodgers’ 20 home runs entering the game.
One of the homers wasn’t exactly of the unexpected variety --Andre Ethier’s three-run shot was his sixth home run -- but the others came fromDee Gordon(first of his career)  and A.J.Ellis.
Ellis’ second home run of the season was a two-run drive in the fifth that left the Dodgers with a 7-0 lead andTed Lillysimply cruising. It was looking easy.
This beingCoors Field-- home of the no-lead-is-safe mantra -- things got a little nervous for the Dodgers when the Rockies’ offense awoke in the sixth.
Lilly had allowed only two hits through five scoreless innings, when Eric Young Jr. led off the sixth with a single, and one out later,Carlos Gonzalezhit a two-run homer.
It was the first home run allowed by Lilly since last Aug. 26, a span of 68 innings. The batter who hit it? Gonzalez.
Lilly, off to a 3-0 start for the first time in his 12-year career, left after six innings. He gave up two runs on four hits and one walk, with four strikeouts.
He was followed byJosh Lindblom, who had been just shy of spectacular in his first 11 appearances (one earned run), but got into immediate trouble. He gave up back-to-back doubles to Ramon Hernandez andChris Nelson, and then a two-run homer toTyler Colvin.
The Rockies pulled to within one in the eighth whenTroy Tulowitzkitripled off the right-field wall againstKenley Jansenand scored onTodd Heltonsacrifice fly that Tony Gwynn Jr. caught near the left-center wall.
The Dodgers turned it over to Guerra in the ninth, who after three consecutive poor outings, pitched a scoreless inning to earn the save. But it came with some added suspense. With the tying run on second, Mark Ellis made a game-saving backhanded stop of aMarco Scutarobouncer. Guerra struck out Gonzalez to end it.
Gordon opened the game by jumping on aJhoulys Chacin(0-3) fastball, stunning everyone -- including himself, no doubt -- by driving it off the façade in the second deck.
Singles byMark Ellis(one of his four) and Kemp preceded Ethier’s three-run homer. Ellis doubled in one run in the third before hitting his two-run homer in the fifth.
RELATED:
Wave goodbye to the McCourts: Dancing in the streets is allowed
Frank McCourt's farewell letter to Dodgers staff
Did Matt Kemp just have the greatest April in MLB history?

Dodgers start new ownership era by hanging on for 7-6 win
Copyright © 2012,Los Angeles Times
Currently there are no comments.  Be the first tocomment!

Steve Dilbeck has covered Los Angeles sports for more than 25 years. He has covered 18 World Series, 14 Super Bowls, 13 NBA Finals, five Olympics and lived to see the Clippers win a playoff series.@stevedilbeck
Beth Howard lives in the house made famous by Grant Wood's 1930 painting, Americ...
Beth Howard lives in the house made famous by Grant Wood's 1930 painting, American Gothic.
Tweets from L.A. Times staff writers.
Share your travel photos. We'll feature the best in print and online. Above, Papua New Guinea.
Terms of Service|Privacy Policy|About Our Ads| Los Angeles Times, 202 West 1st Street, Los Angeles, California, 90012 | Copyright 2012
