Andy Pettitte's schedule is uncertain as Yankees want results
TheNashville Predatorssuspended forwards Alexander Radulov and Andrei Kostitsyn for Game 3 of their Western Conference semifinal series against thePhoenix Coyoteson Wednesday night for an unspecified violation of team rules.
If it happens on ice and it involves hitting and scoring, The Times's Slap Shot blog is on it.
The Predatorsannounced the suspensionsTuesday morning, and General Manager David Poile and Coach Barry Trotz said the decision to punish the forwards was easy. Poile said he was leaving the decision on whether the players would return for Game 4 on Friday night up to Trotz. The Coyotes lead the series, 2-0, after winning the first two games at home.
Poile refused to specify what rule Radulov and Kostitsyn broke, saying any hint would give away what they did. He called their behavior unfortunate and selfish.
“I hope there is some remorse for what they did,” Poile said. “Time will tell with their behavior and if they get the opportunity to get back into the lineup.”
Kostitsyn and Radulov spoke with their teammates Tuesday. Kostitsyn did not speak with reporters after practice in Nashville, but Radulov did. He hinted the rule violation might have been a broken curfew.
“I didn’t come back that late that they were saying, but like I said before, I don’t want to talk about it,” Radulov said. “They did what they had to. I am disappointed, and I understand what is my mistake.”
Kostitsyn has two goals in the postseason, one in each of the losses at Phoenix. Nashville picked him up at the trade deadline from Montreal, reuniting him with his younger brother, Sergei. Radulov has a team-high 6 points in the playoffs and set a franchise record with an assist in four straight postseason games in the first round.
Radulov spent the past four seasons in Russia, playing in the Kontinental Hockey League. He returned to the Predators in March to complete the final year of his original contract.
The Predators insisted the suspensions would not be a distraction. Poile and Trotz discussed the suspensions with the team’s player leadership, including the captain Shea Weber and defenseman Ryan Suter, before announcing them.
“As long as people learn from their mistakes, that’s the biggest thing,” Suter said.
The timing could not be worse for the Predators. They have not trailed by 2-0 in a series since 2008 against Detroit. They managed to tie that series by winning both games at home before losing the series in six games.
“Every team that has success in the playoffs has to go through some adversity,” Trotz said. “They haven’t had to go through a whole lot of adversity yet, so this is a good test.”
KINGS ARE CRUISINGJeff Carter realizes how smooth the Los Angeles Kings’ 6-1 run through the postseason must look from the outside. Carter, a Kings forward, knows most people do not realize how the Kings, the Western Conference’s eighth seeds, had to grind, scratch and scrape just to get a chance to look so good.
“The last month of the regular season, we were playing playoff hockey,” Carter said after the Kings returned from consecutive victories in St. Louis to open their second-round series.
“We had to fight just to get in, and once you get in, anything can happen.”
Heading into Game 3 on Thursday, the Kings are in a commanding position after two gritty road wins that left the hard-nosed Blues criticizing their own work ethic and defense.
The Kings won Game 2, 5-2, on Monday night.
“It was embarrassing, the work ethic we had as a team, I think,” Blues forward T. J. Oshie said. "For our team defense to be that poor, it’s embarrassing.”
Also in Travel »
America does not have to rebuild a failing state in order to accomplish our original goal after 9/11.
An artist who uses cigarettes to help soothe his anxiety asks: Why do I love most the very things that will kill me?
