Andy Pettitte testifies in Roger Clemens perjury trial | Baseball
$60 Worth Of Free Picks at Doc's
The Predators look to get back in the series as they return home to host the Coyotes.
The remarkable postseason run by the Phoenix Coyotes has extended into their second round encounter with the nashville Predators as the Coyotes swept Games 1 and 2 at the Jobing.com Arena and now take to the road looking for yet another win. The Predators meanwhile will look to jump back into the series with a pair of wins at home but will have to do so without the services of Alexander Radulov and Andrei Kostitsyn who were both suspended for violating team rules.
Phoenix has ridden the play of Mike Smith in the crease all season long and coming into their series with the Predators we were expecting more of the same in what was surely going to be a goaltending battle with Vezina nominee Pekka Rinne. However, the first two games of this series have been uncharacteristically offensive and the Coyotes have come out on top on both occasions. Heading into Game 3 however the Coyotes can expect a lower scoring affair as the Predators are desperate and now that they need to take the next two games at home and the best way to do that is to get back to their defensive game and capitalize on offensive opportunities once they're given.
The Preds will be without Radulov and Kostitsyn as mentioned as they were out past curfew prior to Game 2 and as such were very ineffective and have been disciplined by the team. While Radulov and Kostitsyn bring an offensive dimension that the Preds are going to miss their defensive play has been very poor and subject to a number of criticisms. The Predators however acquired both of those guys in the remaining quarter of the season and were one of the league's best without them so they have the potential to bounce back and stay in this series. Shea Weber called out Nashville's defensive play so far in this series and I thikn the team responds at home and while there is no value taking the Preds here the play is on the under as Nashville needs to win and this is the best way how.
TwitterDiggDeliciousStumbleUpon

Premium Edition
Picks And Parlays
Free Premium Picks at Doc's Sports
Free Trial for Handicapping Software

SportsChatPlaceFacebookTwitter
Privacy Policy

