Tuesday's MLB notebook: Andy Pettitte recalls Roger Clemens conversation about HGH
bySarah McLellan- May.  1, 2012 05:27 PMThe Republic | azcentral.com
NASHVILLE - As the trade deadline approaches and front offices have one final chance to beef up their lineups for a playoff run, many teams look for a standard in their division or conference in assembling a potential Stanley Cup team.
Game 2 photos|Coyotes fans|Game 2 box score
Last year, the model for the Coyotes was San Jose, Anaheim and Los Angeles.
"We needed to be a little bigger, a little bulkier," General Manager Don Maloney recalled. "We picked up Rusty Klesla to give us a little more weight on the blue line, and then we ran into a Detroit buzz saw and we maybe lacked a little quickness. So this year everyone imitates the best to figure out, 'OK, how do we play?'"
This year the measuring stick was Detroit and Vancouver, and matching up against those teams seemed to be the Nashville Predators' mission. They added a faceoff specialist, Paul Gaustad, increased their skill with Andrei Kostitsyn and Alexander Radulov and heightened their experience with defenseman Hal Gill.
And it worked.
The Predators eliminated the Red Wings in five games, yet they find themselves in an 0-2 series hole in their Western Conference semifinal set against the Coyotes before Wednesday's Game 3.
It's the teams that appeared to be overlooked when preparing for the playoffs -- the Coyotes and Kings -- that have comfortable leads. And Kostitsyn and Radulov will miss Game 3 because of a team rules violation.
"Certainly I think everybody was looking at Vancouver and Detroit, specifically, and saying, 'How do you beat those teams in a seven-game series?'" Maloney said. "Just the skill that they both have, and I think everybody was looking saying, 'Do we have enough ability to play with those type of teams?'
"I think in Nashville's case they have a terrific team, and they were in a position at the trade deadline to add key offensive performers to give them a better chance. Obviously they made that decision."
That decision is a luxury, and it isn't widespread. The Coyotes are typically bargain shoppers, seeking players to fit their system and who will squeeze out every last drop of potential.
The team's Game 2 performance was clearly symbolic of that.
The Coyotes consistently rolled four lines and even though only the top three lines tallied goals, the fourth line was arguably the best at galvanizing energy and momentum.
"Everybody's on the same page," coach Dave Tippett said. "Their work ethic, the commitment to defending, and right through we're trying to generate chances every line. We're trying to create offense. Our lines right now have done a pretty good job for us."
Efforts like that have also helped the Coyotes' already-strong inner confidence grow. Despite earning the result they wanted, no one was impressed by Game 1's performance in a 4-3 overtime win.
But even when doubt circled outside the locker room that the Coyotes couldn't improve for Game 2, the players inside questioned that.
"A lot of times you get in a series where maybe you're the underdog in a series, and you get a win and everybody thinks the other team should win the next game because they're supposed to win," Tippett said. "But our guys don't understand that. Why can't we win again?"
That was the mindset that pushed the Coyotes to their best game of the playoffs on Sunday, and it's likely the attitude they'll take into the Bridgestone Arena Wednesday with the opportunity to take a stranglehold on the series.
"At the start of the season, nobody picked us to make the playoffs," Tippett said. "Now we're in the playoffs. Nobody picks us to win in the playoffs, but our guys are pretty immune to that. We'll keep just carrying on our day-to-day chores and our players know that if we play the way we can, we have a chance to win every night.
"That's all that counts for us."
Popular Searches
The Coyotes look to take a 3-0 series lead by getting a win in Nashville over the Predators in Game 3 on Wednesday.

STANLEY CUP PLAYOFFS: SECOND ROUNDPhoenix Coyotes vs. Nashville PredatorsCoyotes lead series, 2-0Game 1:Coyotes 4, Predators 3 (OT)|PhotosGame 2:Coyotes 5, Predators 3|PhotosGame 3:Wednesday, May 2nd, 6 p.m., at NashvilleTV: CNBC |Radio: XTRA 910 AMGame 4:Friday, May 4th, 4:30 p.m., at NashvilleTV: NBC Sports Network |Radio: XTRA 910 AMGame 5:Monday, May 7th, 7 p.m., at Glendale*TV: NBC Sports Network |Radio: XTRA 910 AMGame 6:Wednesday, May 9th, TBD, at Nashville*TV: TBD  |Radio: XTRA 910 AMGame 7:Friday, May 11th, TBD, at Glendale*TV: TBD  |Radio: XTRA 910 AM*If necessary.
Coyotes fans|Coyotes pick'em|NHL pick'em|Fan shopNHL power rankings: Where they stand
For coverage of the Nashville Predators,click here
Phoenix Coyotes look to take stranglehold on series vs. Nashville PredatorsPhoenix Coyotes downplay Nashville Predators' suspensions of Aexander Radulov, Andrei KostitsynNashville Predators suspend two players for Game 3Jerry Colangelo statue a sticky matter when it should be a no-brainerPhoenix Coyotes' fourth line instrumental to success in NHL playoffsmore coyotes/nhl news »
Steve Nash's memorable moments with the Phoenix SunsNashville Predators suspend two players for Game 3Arizona Cardinals like a lot about QB Ryan LindleyNew York Knicks' Amare Stoudemire cuts hand on fire-extinguisher case glass after loss to Miami HeatFormer Arizona Wildcats basketball player Josiah Turner arrested on suspicion of extreme DUICardinals add 17 undrafted free agentsArizona Diamondbacks' aggressiveness pays off again in win over Miami MarlinsSports on TVArizona Cardinals' Kevin Kolb aiming to prove doubters wrongTen former ASU football players sign free agent NFL contracts
Visitgoogleoff: indexDeal Chickengoogleon: indexevery dayto find big savings from local businesses.Today's deal:$99 for six laser hair removal treatments (includes bikini line) plus a FotoFacial RF.Sign up to get the deal e-mailed to you each day »Business owners: We pay you to promote your deal »
Enter your email address to getTop sports news (daily)newsletters.
