Fire breaks out at Tyler Perry's studios in Atlanta


Disney and Marvel Studios appear to have a runaway hit on their hands.
The Avengers, which only began rolling out at the international box office late last week, is easily on track to become the most successful title produced in-house by Marvel Studios, besting the $623 million worldwide gross of 2010'sIron Man 2.
Directed byJoss Whedon,Avengersis doing massive business at the international box office, earning $218 million in its first six days through Monday and breaking records across the globe. And the 3D pic, which unites many of Marvel's marquee superheroes, could enjoy weekend-like business Tuesday because of the May Day holiday in many foreign markets.
PHOTOS: Avengers Premiere in Los Angeles
At this pace,Avengers' foreign gross likely will grow to $350 million-$400 million by Sunday, boosted by its debut in Russia and China this weekend.
Avengersopens at midnight Thursday in North America, where it's widely expected to debut north of $150 million, based on the strength of prerelease tracking. Bullish box office observers believeAvengerscould finish the weekend with a global gross well north of $500 million, if not closer to $600 million.
The superhero tentpole is the first Marvel Studios film marketed and distributed by Disney following the company's acquisition of Marvel.
Last summer, Marvel'sThorgrossed $449.3 million worldwide, whileCaptain America: The First Avengerearned $368.6 million. The firstIron Manearned $585 million globally in 2008; all three characters are featured inAvengers.



The Marvel Studios and Disney superhero extravaganza is generating bigger prerelease interest than "The Dark Knight" or "The Hunger Games."Read more
Ruthless paydays for talent, megasized box office and creative domination.Read more
Follow @THR
Chris Hemsworth, Scarlett Johansson assemble in Hollywood.Read more
Outtakes from the actor's THR photo session.Read more
Matthew McConaughey was among the stars at the festival.Read more
Kristen Stewart stars in Universal's dark fairytale.Read more



View gallery
Read more
Read more
View gallery
©2012 The Hollywood Reporter.All rights reserved.
Terms of Use|Privacy Policy
Our affiliate publications

