Review: Carrie Underwood blows off country on new album
Weather:Sydney 13°C-
						24°C.
					 Sunny morning. Light rain later.
Jessica Simpson pictured in January this year. Picture: AFPSource:news.com.au
Jessica Simpson appears on Jimmy Kimmel in March this year. Picture: SnappermediaSource:news.com.au
google_ad_section_start(name=story_introduction, weight=high)JESSICA Simpson has finally given birth to a baby girl and it seems everyone has something to say about it.google_ad_section_end(name=story_introduction)
No sooner had the 32-year-old and her fiance Eric Johnson welcomed daughter Maxwell Drew Johnson into the world than the baby's unconventional name started trending globally on Twitter.
Maxwell is Johnson's middle name and the maiden name of his mother, and Drew is Simpson's mother's maiden name. But while the choice may please the family it has divided fans.
Simpson had also been dubbed "America's most pregnant" in recent weeks after gossip sites had suggested she was six months pregnant in October last year. If this was the case she would have been pregnant for almost a year.
She spoke openly about her significant weight gain during the pregnancy on Jimmy Kimmel Live and other celebrities such as The View's Joy Behar and pregnant reality star Kristin Cavallari suggested she had put on too many pounds.
Celebrities including Katy Perry and Chelsea Handler also tweeted their concern about Simpson's lengthy pregnancy in recent days:
"Has Jessica Simpson had that baby yet?! I'm getting anxious," Katy Perry tweeted just days ago.
"How has jessica simpson still not given birth to this baby? I'm getting frightened," said Chelsea Handler.
Simpson addressed the rumour mill herself in late April, tweeting: "To everyone who keeps congratulating me on the birth of my baby girl ... I'm still pregnant!"
Here's some of what the Twitterverse had to say about the singer's news:

Jessica Simpson had her baby. Apparently, Kanye busted into the delivery room and said Beyonce had the best baby of all time.
Jessica Simpson finally had her baby, a third-grader named Maxwell.
Congrats to Jessica Simpson!Does this mean I now have the biggest baby bump in Hollywood?
Congrats to Jessica Simpson and her litter today.
Jessica Simpson gave birth to a baby girl today, weighing in at 9 pounds, 13 million fat jokes.
I won't make fun of Jessica Simpson naming her daughter Maxwell Drew Johnson because it's a really good, strong, masculine name for a boy.
Jessica Simpson FINALLY gives birth & is inducted into Guinness Book of World Records for longest pregnancy at 2 years 3 months 16 days.
@JennyJohnsonHi5I actually thought Jessica Simpson's kid would come out and start managing her career
I'm not worried about what Jessica Simpson is going to name her new baby because the kid is 3 years old and can probably name itself.
Jessica Simpson named her baby girl Maxwell?? Could she not have chosen a more feminine sounding coffee name like Nescafina instead??
Sorry guys, STILL tripping over Jessica Simpson naming her daughter MAXIMUM JOHNSON.
Fun fact: an elephant's gestation period is 22mos. And apparently, so is Jessica Simpson's. I swear she's been pregnant since 2010.
Back to top of page
Apr 21 - May 21
According to some religions, we are all sinners. Others believe that, even if this is true, we are also all, potentially, great saints. We have it within our power, each and e...Read more
Powered byJonathan Cainer
Read All Horoscopes
You can now save articles on our site to read later.
DRAMATIC scenes as police raiding Sydney HSU office catch Michael Williamson allegedly leaving carpark with papers.
Slipper drinks: Government accuses Opposition of cover-up
UPDATE:Police continue to search site where Brisbane mum's body was found.
YESTERDAY he was looking for Slippery Pete; today Sacha Baron Cohen was offering advice to Australia's politicians.
Kathy McCabe, Music Editor// .article-infoA fresh crop of genre-bending artists with a new Australian sound will contest the prestigious 2012 APRA Song Of The Year.
By Owen Vaughan// .article-infoTHE show that was every liberal's wet dream while George W. Bush was in the White House has returned. Sort of.
By Owen Vaughan// .article-infoSHE manages to turn heads when dressing conservatively so imagine what model could do if she wore a red bikini while dancing.
By Chris Paine and Owen Vaughan// .article-infoEXPLICIT photos of model on her private balcony are being shopped around by her friend Darryn Lyons. And she’s not happy.
RUSSIAN babushka dolls have served as inspiration for women's wear designer Alice McCall.
MATTHEW Newton was known as Bert Newton's son when he hit the scene as a teenager but now the actor has built a reputation for himself off t...
A LOOK back at the colourful - and often controversial life - of Crocodile Hunter Steve Irwin, who died in a freak stingray accident in Cair...
MINING magnate Andrew Forrest says a three-legged dog could beat Wayne Swan in swipe in to PM's deputy.
ANZ Banking Group has lifted its first half profit by 10 per cent, but the bank is unlikely to pass on yesterday's official rate cut in full.
WHICH state has the dubious honour of creating more millionaires through fraud than any other?
A fresh crop of genre-bending artists with a new Australian sound will contest the prestigious 2012 APRA Song Of The Year.
NIGHT bazaars, watching elephants playing soccer and patting white tigers are great activities for children on holiday in Thailand, writes Carla Adams.
IT'S Earth like you you've never seen it before. Ever wanted to see everything we did at once?Now you can.
Copyright 2012 News Limited. All times AEST (GMT +10:00).
