Louis CK, Bjork among Webby Awards winners

The nominations for the66th annual Tony Awardswere announced at 8:30 a.m. on Tuesday. The new Broadway musical “Once” led the Tony Award nominations with 11 nods, including for best musical, director, actor, actress and choreographer, while “Peter and the Starcatcher” led the unusually strong pack of plays with 9 nominations. Among the losers on Tuesday was the $75 million “Spider-Man: Turn Off the Dark,” which received only two minor nominations, and the critically acclaimed play “The Lyons,” which drew a best actress nomination for Linda Lavin but nothing else.
The complete list can be foundhere.
Play|MusicalAuto-refresh is: ONTurn ONTurn OFFRefresh nowUpdating…FeedTwitter








From the deluge of art, a critic chooses some standouts. Readers are invited to add their own impressions in six words.
Anthony Tommasini explores the qualities that make a classical composer great, maybe even the best of all time.
This year the Tony Awards paid attention to more shows than usual and set up exceptionally competitive races in several categories.
Renzo Piano’s Nasher museum in Dallas is suffering from excessive glare shining off a new condo tower the museum’s fame helped attract to the area.
“The Realistic Joneses” is a tender, funny, terrific new play by Will Eno at the Yale Repertory Theater.
“The Ash Girl,” staged by the Pipeline Theater Company, applies several hard-edge themes to the Cinderella story.
The sequel to Hilary Mantel’s acclaimed “Wolf Hall” focuses on Thomas Cromwell’s machinations in the Tudor court of Henry VIII and Anne Boleyn.
May 01
The basketball-themed play will close on May 12.
May 01
New wall text accompanying the Metropolitan Museum of Art's popular "The Steins Collect" exhibition - more than 200 works that demonstrate the influence of Gertrude Stein, her brothers Leo and Michael and her sister-in-law Sarah as 20th century art patrons - will acknowledge Gertrude's affiliation with a Vichy collaborator and Nazi agent.
May 01
Four artists, none of them painters, are on the shortlist for Britain's $65,000 Turner Prize, which was announced Tuesday.
May 01
Once known as the Kodak, the Dolby Theater will be the name of the home of the Oscars for the next 20 years.
May 01
Duran Duran, Stereophonics, Snow Patrol and Paolo Nutini are to perform in Hyde Park on July 27 for the opening of the Olympics in London.
The one-time media mogul had given up his Canadian citizenship to receive a British peerage.
While several fellow moguls offered kind words to Mr. Murdoch, Ted Turner wasn't quite so supportive.
Attracted by Pandora's popularity and the way it handles music licenses, many online music services have developed similar services.
The Carpetbagger says goodbye -- for now.
Pundits are already making lists of what might be nominated next year: think "Great Gatsby," "The Hobbit," "Les Miz" and many more.
Strange moments from the red carpet include Nick Nolte talking about crows and Richard Dreyfuss discussing the preamble to the Constitution. Then there was Zach Galifianakis.
ArtsBeat is a Web site devoted to culture news and reviews, and to the work and interests of the reporters and critics of The Times’s culture department and the Book Review. Come here for breaking stories about the arts, coverage of live events, interviews with leading cultural figures, critical reviews, multimedia extravaganzas and much more.
We welcome your input: Send your feedback and tips toartsbeat@nytimes.comand learn more about our commenting policyhere.
Follow us:Twitter|RSS
