Chris Treadway: West County celebrating Cinco de Mayo
By 

Rob Markman (@RobMarkman), with reporting by Sway Calloway (@realsway)

WhenLil Waynefirst signed with Cash Money Records as a pre-teen, he wasn't the label's biggest star, but these days, it's impossible to imagine the premier rap label without Tunechi. With his most-recent deal, fans won't have to fathom that possibility.
A few weeks back, Weezy announced onMTV's "Hip Hop POV"that here-signed with Cash Moneyfor a four-album deal, and since then,rumorshave begun to surface thatBirdmanput up $150 million to retain Wayne's recording rights.
"YMCMB start and stop with Wayne; it ain't no YMCMB without Wayne," Birdman told MTV News correspondent Sway Calloway on Monday night while DJ Khaled was shooting his "Take It to the Head" video in L.A.

On "POV," Wayne said, "Everybody knows I came into the game at 11 years old with Cash Money Records, before we even had a major deal. We signed a deal in I don't remember when, and I been with Cash Money ever since. So, if you're looking for integrity, I am the definition. If you're looking for a person that's gonna stay down, I am the definition. If you're looking for loyalty, I am just that."
Birdman wouldn't confirm the exact figures in the deal, but he made it clear that when it comes to Wayne, who he considers a son, the sky is the limit. "The type of situation we did never been done in urban music; it's probably the biggest deal ever in urban music," he said. "I'm blessed to even do that — whatever my son want, he can get. It's all his anyway, so it don't really matter to me."
With Weezy as the flagship, the #1 Stunna hopes to grow his Cash Money/Young Money company into a billion-dollar brand. "That's one of our goals, and the move we just made was a big move to that, to make sure the pioneer of it, which is Wayne," he said.
Tunechi's next album will beI Am Not a Human Being II, and the new deal ensures that it won't be his last. Baby is no doubt proud to continue doing business with Birdman Jr., but let him tell it, and it's more than business: "This is for life," he said.
Are you looking forward to Lil Wayne's next album? Tell us in the comments!

Photo: Kevin Winter/Getty Images
Posted4/11/12
Posted1 hr ago
