'The Voice' Recap: CeeLo Has Tough Choice to Make as Elite Eight Perform
Ruffalo, as the Incredible Hulk, thanks to CGI and performance-capture technology
Mark Ruffalo, who plays Bruce Banner/the Hulk, says he used to punch holes in the wall when he was an aspiring actor in his 20s.
You wouldn’t like him when he’s angry.
Actually, you would:Mark Ruffalomakes for an incredible Hulk in “The Avengers.”
The 44-year-old actor says he can relate to the rage consuming his character, Dr. Bruce Banner, in the superhero blockbuster opening Friday - despite his zen-like calm while talking to a reporter at the posh Beverly Hills Four Seasons hotel.
5-STAR REVIEW: 'THE AVENGERS' REDEFINES SUPER HERO MOVIES
RELATED: MEET THE WOMEN OF 'THE AVENGERS'
RELATED: SAMUEL L. JACKSON AND JEREMY RENNER HAVE COMIC TIMING
“You should have seen me in my 20s, man,” Ruffalo says of a decade spent largely traveling between fruitless auditions. “I was the poster definition of an angry young man with a persecution complex.
“I’ve gotten a lot of gifts and I have a lot to be thankful for, so I don’t wear my anger - I’m much cooler. But there was a time if you came into my apartment, there were pictures and posters hanging in very odd places where they were covering fist-holes through walls.
“Glasses that had been thrown through, coffee mugs, books, whatever I could get a hold of as I was struggling as a young actor, suffering through imagined or real slights from other people’s hands,” he says, now able to grin through the memories. “So it wasn’t too hard to revisit those places.”
It’s hard to reconcile that with his current reputation as one of the nice guys in Hollywood. Even “Avengers” co-starSamuel L. Jacksontold the News, “He’s just everybody's little cuddly bear. Everyone loves hugging on Mark.”
On screen, however, Ruffalo can rampage with the best of them.
PHOTOS: WHO'S WHO IN THE AVENGERS
RELATED: HOW MARVEL ASSEMBLED THE AVENGERS
He has his work cut out for him as the third actor that moviegoers have had to accept as Banner (whose experiments with gamma radiation turn him into the world’s most misunderstood super hero) in less than a decade.
Eric Banawalked around in ripped pants in 2003’s “Hulk” andEd Nortonput on the green contacts for 2008’s “The Incredible Hulk.”
“I sort of see it as the next step in what has already come before by two great actors who I totally admire and thoroughly enjoyed in what they did with this,” says Ruffalo.
This time around, writer/directorJoss Whedonwas looking to cast an actor that could channel the sadness ofBill Bixbyfrom the TV version of “The Incredible Hulk” that made Whedon’s generation tear up in the late ’70s.
As “The Avengers” opens, an older, wearier Banner is hiding among lepers in Calcutta, avoiding the authorities who seek to capture the Hulk, when he’s tracked down by the Black Widow (Scarlett Johansson). He’s asked to join the titular group of heroes as they seek to save the planet from a major threat.

Here are some of the worst/best ones we found still available on Suggest.
Amar'e Stoudemire came to NY before the 2010-11 season, proclaimed "The Knicks are back."
Worries over the safety of witnesses could delay the trial against Trayvon Martin’s killer.
Kate Upton is taking the fashion industry by storm with her voluptuous curves and girl-next-door appeal.
Three generations of a Bronx family died when an SUV carrying 7 people vaulted off an overpass.
Spring is here and the stars are out - really out. Take a look at the hottest beach bods of 2012.
After 31 years, Kiss-FM says goodbye, merges with WBLS.
If you don't know your shields from your S.H.I.E.L.D., we'll get you up to speed faster than a lightning bolt from Mjolnir.
The 120-pound mastiff latched his jaws around the boy's head and furiously shook him back and forth, police said.
Take a look back at how the site has grown out of the rubble and into the Freedom Tower ...
One World Trade Center officially eclipses the Empire State Building.
Kris Jenner supports her daughter’s plan to one day run for mayor.
A crazed gunman shot his pregnant girlfriend and was then wounded by police in a wild shootout near an airport in Daytona Beach, Fla., police said.
Sometimes Hollywood stars fail to put their best, er, face forward.
