Soup to Nuts: Kentucky Derby meets Cinco de Mayo
"America's Next Top Model" Cycle 18 wears Francis Libiran
Jennylyn guests on "Kapamilya Deal or No Deal"
Range Rover launches Evoque Victoria Beckham Edition
Behind the scenes of 'The Avengers'
Melissa Gilbert Discusses 'Dancing' Judges' Harsh Criticism
Charlize Theron Honored At CinemaCon 2012
Brooklyn Decker Toughens Up On 'Battleship'
Josh Hutcherson: 'It Was Awesome' To Be Accepted By 'The Hunger Games' Fans
Explore news, videos, and much more based on what your friends are reading and watching. Publish your own activity and retain full control.

Lil Wayne
Cash Money recordsco-founderBirdmansays thatLil Waynewas signed to “the biggest deal ever inurban music”.
The 29-year-old American rapper reportedly signed a contract extension to release four more albums withCash Moneyfor $150 million. Lil Wayne has been signed to the label since he was 11-years-old.
Birdman declined to specify the amount he spent to retain Lil Wayne, but the record executive believes the rapper is well worth the fortune.
“YMCMB start and stop with Wayne; it ain't no YMCMB without Wayne,” Birdman told MTV News. “The type of situation we did never been done in urban music; it's probably the biggest deal ever in urban music. I'm blessed to even do that — whatever my son want, he can get. It's all his anyway, so it don't really matter to me.”
Birdman is hoping to expand Cash Money into a billion dollar business.
“That's one of our goals, and the move we just made was a big move to that, to make sure the pioneer of it, which is Wayne,” he shared.
Lil Wayne’s next album entitled I Am Not a Human Being II is set for release later on this year.
“Homosexuality is not a sin but it is a lie from the devil. Do not be deceived. God loves gays and wants …
Michael Jackson had a two-week long affair with Whitney Houston, it has been claimed.
Cancer survivors are being advised that avoiding a relapse could be as simple as maintaining a healthy …
Copenhagen restaurant Noma topped The World's 50 Best Restaurants awards in London Monday night, cementing …
Angelica Panganiban believes success has not changed Piolo Pascual.
Get Yahoo! OMG on the go, anytime, anywhere.
"America's Next Top Model" Cycle 18 wears …
Jennylyn guests on "Kapamilya Deal or No …
Range Rover launches Evoque Victoria Beckham …
Behind the scenes of 'The Avengers'
Melissa Gilbert Discusses 'Dancing' Judges' Harsh Criticism
For adults only: Surprising sex facts
Sharon on Jules, KC's growing 'friendshi …
See this brutal knockout punch
Foods to keep you young, healthy
Derek, Angelica 'in a cool-off stage'
