'The Voice': The final four are set
Anne Hathaway reveals some more of her Catwoman portrayal in the new "The Dark Knight Rises" trailer.(Ron Phillips / Warner Bros./January9, 2012)
May 1, 2012,2:43 p.m.
"The Dark Knight Rises"trailer was unleashed in a viral storm on Monday night, and while fanboys and Internet trolls can't escape the gloom of the clip, we've noticed some awesome new things aboutAnne Hathaway.
As Selina Kyle and her lethal alter-ego Catwoman, Hathaway has already commanded quite a bit of attention as she slips into the role famously inhabited by actresses such as Michelle Pfieffer,Halle Berryand Julie Newmar.
The first images of hercatsuitdrummed up a lot of conversation a while back, and now a new trailer (watch it below)revealssome exciting details, such as ...
Cat scratch fever: It's definitely a tease, but around 1:55 we get to see Hathaway swinging away, punching and kicking and being a badass. While we can't tell if she's swatting off thugs alongside Batman or causing the hero more trouble, it brings us to...
Ambiguous Anne: Teaser trailers painted a very condescending Selina Kyle, tauntingChristian Bale's Bruce Wayne and looming like a villain on her bulky motorcycle. But the extended trailer suggests that Catwoman always looks out for No. 1, and if that means teaming with the Dark Knight for survival, so be it.
Love Triangle!?Wearing her kitty ears, Catwoman pleads with a broken Batman to abandon Gotham, insisting he's given its citizens enough. And her mannerisms give the slightest suggestion that he should abscondwith her. In another moment, Batman is out of his batsuit and into Wayne's Wall Street suspenders, kissing onMarion Cotillard. Please, please tell us we get to see these two ladies catfight?
Catchphrase: "My mother warned me about getting into cars with strange men." Well played.
What are your favorite Catwoman moments from "The Dark Knight Rises" extended trailer? Tell us in comments.

RELATED:
Rapper Anne Hathaway channels her inner Weezy
Anne Hathaway is engaged to actor beau Adam Shulman
Anne Hathaway pics show more of Catwoman; fans resume breathing
Follow Matt Donnelly on Twitter@mattdonnelly.
Copyright © 2012,Los Angeles Times
My favorite comment so far captures my sentiments:  "My goosebumps rises"
Jack Nicholson in The Dark Knight Rises?
http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQLjYL1s64c&feature=relmfu
Christie D'Zurilla has more than 20 years' experience in journalism, and a high tolerance for inappropriate behavior.@dzurillaville
Matt Donnelly covers people, parties and pop culture. Occasionally he attempts GOOP recipes.@mattdonnelly
Beth Howard lives in the house made famous by Grant Wood's 1930 painting, Americ...
Beth Howard lives in the house made famous by Grant Wood's 1930 painting, American Gothic.
Share your travel photos. We'll feature the best in print and online. Above, Papua New Guinea.
Terms of Service|Privacy Policy|About Our Ads| Los Angeles Times, 202 West 1st Street, Los Angeles, California, 90012 | Copyright 2012
